Report of the Committee

on

Delisting of Shares

Part I

1. 
1.1

Background
There is a growing trend of delisting of shares from the Indian stock
exchanges.    The  Multi-National  Companies  (MNCs)  have  also  been
seeking  delisting  from  the  stock  exchanges  for  a  variety  of  reasons
and  according  to  the  statistics  and  indications  available  with  the
Committee, the number of such companies has been on the increase in
the last two years and this trend is likely to continue.  The trend has
engaged  the  attention  of  the  public,  media  and  investor  associations
and  has  caused  uneasiness  and  anxiety  among  investors.  In  several
quarters, a view has also been expressed that delisting should not be
resorted  to.    The  Ministry  of  Finance  (MOF)  have  also  written  to
SEBI on the increasing instances of MNCs delisting from the Indian
stock  exchanges  and  the  possible  negative  impact  on  the  securities
market, as also about the non compliance by MNCs of the compulsory
dilution of equity norms under FDI policy. As indicated by the MOF,
these  issues  were  also  discussed  in  the  Parliamentary  Standing
Committee on Finance and in the Parliament.

1.2 

It  is  being  argued  that  permanent  delisting  of  shares  shrinks  the
universe  of  liquid  stocks  and  thus  affects  depth  and  liquidity  of  the

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 1 of 39

market, results in loss of investment opportunities for the public, and
reduces the wealth of the securities market. The exit price offered to
the  shareholders  is  not  perceived  to  be  commensurate  with  the
company’s  fundamentals,  its  true  worth  and  the  permanent  loss  of
investment  opportunity,  especially  when  delisting  takes  place  under
depressed market conditions. Minority shareholders seem to perceive
that they are compelled to sell their shares at the offer price, even if
the offer price is not in their opinion attractive enough, because they
run  the  risk  of  holding  an  illiquid  investment.  The  way  in  which
delisting takes place at present is thus perceived as being unfair, both
to the investors as well as to the market.

1.3  The  main  concern  according  to  the  above  argument  thus  does  not
appear  to  be  so  much  against  delisting  per  se,  as  against  the
inadequacy  of  investor  protection  through  the  prevailing  exit  price
mechanism.

Constitution of the Committee

2.
2.1  Taking note of the above issues and concerns which underpin the need
to revisit the present delisting requirements and the listing conditions,
SEBI decided to set up a Committee under the convenorship of Pratip
Kar, Executive Director SEBI with the following terms of reference:
a.  to examine and review the present conditions for the delisting of securities of
companies listed on the recognised stock exchanges including the delisting by
MNCs and suggest norms and procedures in connection therewith

b.  to review and standardise the listing agreement
c.  to  examine  the  concept  of  listing  at  regional  stock  exchange  and  the

establishment of a listing authority across the stock exchanges.

d.  to suggest ways for effective implementation of listing conditions and penal

provisions for non-compliance

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 2 of 39

e.  to recommend changes in laws, rules regulations etc. in order to give effect to

the recommendations on the above mentioned matter.

2.2  The Committee comprised the following members:

1.  Mr. Sameer Biswas*

Regional Director, Western Region,
Department of Company Affairs

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

Ms. Sucheta Dalal

Mr. A. N. Joshi**

Member, Board of Trustees
Consumer Education & Research Centre

Executive Director
The Stock exchange, Mumbai

Mr. R. M. Joshi

Executive Director, SEBI

Ms. Kamala K.

Mr. Pratip Kar

Executive Director,
Bangalore Stock Exchange

Convenor of the Committee,
Executive Director, SEBI

Mr.P.Krishnamurthy

Representative,
Confederation of Indian Industry

Mr. Vipul Modi

Mr. Ravi Narain

Secretary,
Investors Grievance Forum

Managing Director,
National Stock Exchange

Mr. T. R. Ramaswami CEO,

Association of Merchant Bankers of India

11 Ms. D. N. Raval

Executive Director, SEBI

12 Mr. A. C. Singhvi

Representative,
Federation of Indian Chambers of  Commerce
and Industry

*

**

Replaced  by  Shri  C  D  Paik  Regional  Director,  Western  Region,
Department of Company Affairs and then by Shri R Vasudevan Director
of Inspection and Investigation, Department of Company Affairs
Replaced  by  Dr.  Manoj  Vaish  Dy.  Executive  Director,  The  Stock
Exchange, Mumbai

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 3 of 39

2.3

Meetings of the Committee
The  Committee  held  seven  meetings.  It  examined  the  present
conditions  for  listing  and  delisting  of  shares  and  the  investor
protection issues arising in the case of delisting of shares, the concerns
arising from delisting by the MNCs,  the present exit price mechanism
available  to  shareholders,  whether  further  refinement  is  possible  to
provide  higher  protection  to  investors,  whether  there  is  a  need  to
introduce  specific  provisions 
listing
conditions and the listing agreement, the relevance of regional stock
exchange,  and the need for Central Listing Authority (CLA).

to  discourage 

trend, 

this 

2.4

The Committee also had the benefit of the suggestions of Shri Prithvi
Haldea and the presentation made by him on delisting by MNCs and
on Central Listing Authority.

Issues before the Committee

3.
3.1 Arising  from  the  terms  of  reference  of  the  Committee  and  the
discussions in various fora on the subject of delisting and the present
regulatory regime for delisting, the issues raised before the Committee
were as follows:
a.  whether  there  should  be  regulations  to  prohibit  or  discourage  delisting  of

companies from stock exchanges;

b.  whether  the  present  exit  option  by  way  of  price  mechanism  available  for
voluntary  delisting  of  companies  under  the  various  SEBI  regulations  /
guidelines  need  further  refinement  to  provide  for  adequate  compensation  to
the  shareholders  specially  having  regard  to  the  fact  that  delisting  implies
complete loss of investment opportunity for the shareholders;

c.  whether  such  price  regulation  would  be  adequate  to  protect  the  interest  of
minority  shareholders  and  also  discourage  delisting  of  shares;  and  whether
such price regulation would be contrary to free pricing regime which is being
otherwise pursued by SEBI in the primary market;

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 4 of 39

d.  whether regulations or guidelines should be put in place which can discourage

delisting by one class of companies such as MNCs;

e.  whether separate price regulations for delisting of companies would open up
the  possibility  of  regulatory  arbitrage  with  the  provisions  for  acquisition  of
shares which are solely governed by SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares
and Takeovers) Regulations 1997;

f.  whether  when  one  class  of  securities  (for  example  equity)  of  a  company  is
delisted, other classes of securities of the company (for example debentures)
should also be delisted;

g.  whether  in  the  context  of  electronic  trading  on  the  stock  exchanges,  the

concept of regional stock exchange remains relevant;

h.  whether in the case of multiple listing of the same security, the security can be
delisted from the regional and other stock exchanges without giving any exit
route to the shareholders as long as such security continues remains listed in
any  stock  exchange  which  has  nation-wide  access;  and  whether  this  should
provide sufficient access to liquidity for the investors;

i.  whether the existing Listing Agreement needs to be reviewed in the context of
present  market  structure  and  whether  the  Listing  Agreement  should  be
common for all classes of securities of a company, namely equity and fixed
income securities such as convertible and non-convertible debentures;

j.  whether stock exchanges can compulsorily delist the shares of a company if it
has not complied with the listing conditions and if so the manner in which the
interest of investors/shareholders should be protected;

k.  whether the due diligence for listing of a security is uniform across all stock
exchanges  and  if  not  whether  a  separate  agency  needs  to  be  set  up  to  bring
about uniformity in the due diligence by the stock exchanges for listing of a
security; and,

l.  whether the powers of the stock exchanges are adequate to act as deterrent for

violation of the Listing Agreement.

4.

Recommendations

4.1 

4.2 

The  Committee  examined  the  current  provisions  in  regard  to  listing
and delisting of securities and the definition of the terms “listing”  and
“delisting” in the current regulatory framework.

The term “listing” means the admission of the securities of a company
to  the  trading  privileges  on  a  stock  exchange  with  the  principal
objectives of providing a ready marketability and imparting liquidity
and  free  negotiability  to  securities,  ensuring  proper  supervision  and

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 5 of 39

control of dealings therein; and protecting the interests of shareholders
and of the general investing public. Section 73 of the Companies Act
makes  it  obligatory  on  companies  seeking  to  offer  shares  or
debentures to the public for subscription by the issue of a prospectus,
to make an application to one or more recognized stock exchange for
permission for dealing in the shares or debentures so offered in such
stock exchanges. For the purpose of listing, a company is required to
enter  into  a  listing  agreement  with  the  stock  exchange.  Rule  19  of
SCR Rules enumerates some of the contents of the Listing Agreement
and the standard format of the listing agreement is contained in Bye-
laws of the stock exchanges.

4.3  While  “listing”  has  been  defined  in  and  is  governed  by  various
statutory  provisions,  regulations,  the  SCR  Act,  SCR  Rules  and  the
Companies Act 1956- the main legislations governing offering, listing
and trading of securities and the stock exchanges - are conspicuously
silent  on  the  delisting  of  securities.  Delisting  of  securities  has  been
referred  to  in  regulation  21,  clause  (3)  sub  clause  (a)  of  the  SEBI
(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations  1997
and in the circular issued by SEBI on delisting.

4.4  Prior  to  the  circular  issued  by  SEBI  on  April  29,  1998  which  laid
down  the  various  provisions  under  which  the  securities  could  be
voluntarily  or  compulsorily  delisted  from  the  stock  exchanges,  a
circular no. F6/9/SE/78 dated June 28, 1979 of the MOF permitted the
stock exchanges to delist under certain circumstances, with the prior
approval of the Government. These circumstances were: a company’s

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 6 of 39

net worth falling below its capital on account of losses in the previous
three  years;  infrequent  trading  of  the  company’s  securities  and  the
company’s securities remaining listed on the regional stock exchange.
A circular of the MOF no. F/14(2)/SE/85 dated September 23, 1985
allowed  delisting  of  a  listed  company  if  the  number  of  public
shareholders fell below 5 for every Rs 1 lakh of capital or to below
50% of the offer (except on account of holdings by the institutions), in
other words delisting was allowed when the floating stock fell below
the minimum level. With the issuance of the SEBI circular dated April
29,  1998,  pursuant  to  the  recommendations  of  the  Chandratre
Committee, the aforementioned circulars of MOF were withdrawn.

4.5  The  term  “delisting”  of  securities  means  permanent  removal  of
securities of a listed company from a stock exchange and is therefore
different from “suspension”  or “withdrawal”  of admission to dealings
of  listed  securities,  which  the  stock  exchanges  can  resort  to  for  a
limited  period.  Delisting  is  also  different  from  “buy  back”  of
securities in which the securities of a company are extinguished with
consequent  reduction  of  capital  of  the  company.  In  the  case  of
delisting  there  is  no  reduction  of  capital.  This  distinction  is  of  no
mean significance, for it implies in the first place, that in the case of
buy  back  securities,  the  company  itself  is  the  acquirer  and  hence
provides the funds for buy back. In the case of delisting, the securities
are acquired by a person other than the company and who could be the
promoter,  majority  shareholder  or  a  person  in  control  of  the
management and the funds have to be provided by that acquirer. As

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 7 of 39

the  two  processes  are  fundamentally  different,  the  concerns  and
safeguards for the shareholders should also be necessarily different.

4.6  The Committee noted that currently there are several routes available

for delisting of companies on the Indian stock exchanges :
?  companies may upon request get voluntarily delisted from any stock exchange
other  than  the  regional  stock  exchange  for  the  company,  following  the
provisions in delisting guidelines contained in the SEBI circular dated April
29,1998. In such cases, the companies are required to obtain prior approval of
the holders of the securities sought to be delisted by a special resolution at a
General  Meeting  of  the  company  and  the  holders  of  securities  in  the  region
where the stock exchange is located are given an exit opportunity.  This exit
opportunity is to be given  by the promoters or those who are in the control of
the management to buy the securities offered by the holders at a price not less
than the weighted average of the traded price in the security of preceding 6
months,  in  any  stock  exchange  where  the  highest  volume  of  trading  in  the
security has been recorded. In case there is no trading in the security on any
stock exchange in the preceding 6 months, the auditors of the company may
compute a fair price;

?  companies can get delisted from all stock exchanges pursuant to a process of
acquisition  of  shares  in  accordance  with  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisitions  of
Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations  1997;  the  regulation  requires  that  if  the
public shareholding is reduced to 10 per cent or less of the voting capital of
the company or if the public offer is in respect of a company where the public
shareholding is already less than 10 per cent, the acquirer who has made the
public offer has an option to make an offer to buy the outstanding shares from
the remaining shareholders at the same offer price;

? 

the stock exchanges themselves can, under certain circumstances provided in
the SEBI circular dated April 29, 1998 compulsorily delist the securities of a
listed  company  subject  to  certain  procedure  being  followed  by  the  stock
exchanges.  In such cases there is no provision for an exit route for the holders
of  the  securities  except  that  the  stock  exchanges  would  allow  trading  in  the
securities under the permitted category for a period of one year after delisting;

?  mergers  and  amalgamations,  and  schemes  of  arrangements  under  the

directions of the court can result in delisting, and

?  by  operation  of  law  on  account  of  directions  under  BIFR  companies  can  be

delisted.

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 8 of 39

Delisting of shares of a listed company

4.7 As already discussed in paragraphs 1.1 to 1.3, the growing trend in the
delisting  of  companies,  in  particular  by  the  MNCs  has  caused  some
degree  of  uneasiness  and  there  is  a  perception  among  some  of  the
market  participants  and  investors  that  they  are  not  being  adequately
compensated  for  the  permanent  withdrawal  of  a  good  investment
opportunity.

4.8 

It appears that in the recent past, the MNCs have been using the route
available  under  the  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and
Takeovers) Regulations, 1997 for delisting. The reasons for delisting
are varied: depressed market conditions present an opportune moment
for acquisition of the remaining securities from the shareholders; the
liberalised FDI norms and removal of sectoral caps now allow foreign
companies  to  hold  100  per  cent  equity  in  many  key  sectors  and
provide  an  opportunity  to  control  entire  holdings  so  as  to  give
complete  flexibility  in  operational  decisions,  and  preference  of
retaining listing only in one place, preferably in the home country. It
has  also  been  argued  that  besides  the  flexibility  in  operational
decisions, delisting allows the boards of companies the sole decision-
making  powers,  greater 
investment  decisions,
freedom  from  the  regulatory  environment,  possibility  of  easier
repatriation  of  profits  and  tax  rebates  in  the  country  of  their  origin.
These  factors  however  do  not  contribute 
to  good  corporate
governance.

independence 

in 

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 9 of 39

4.9  The  counterpoint  to  these  arguments  is  that  listing  and  delisting  are
commercial decisions and should be based on business considerations.
So  long  as  delisting  has  the  approval  of  the  shareholders  and  the
minority  shareholders  are  adequately  compensated,  there  cannot  be
any  objection  to  delisting.  It  is  further  argued  that  any  restrictive
condition  goes  against  the  grain  of  a  market  driven  economy  which
should not have any barrier to entry and exit. Artificial barriers to free
exit to companies could ultimately prove to be entry barriers.

4.10  The  Committee  was  of  the  view  that  the  current  criticism  of  the
growing  trend  of  delisting  of  shares  does  not  appear  to  be  against
delisting  per  se,  but  stems  more  from  present  perception  of  the
investors/shareholders  that  the  exit  mechanism  and  the  exit  price
being offered to the minority shareholders, inadequately compensates
them  for  the  total  loss  of  investment  opportunity.  Investor  interest
would therefore be better served if the available safeguards in the case
of  delisting  are  further  strengthened  and  the  exit  pricing  is  fair,
transparent and not detrimental to the investors’  interest.

4.11  The Committee also noted that internationally, stock exchanges do not
impose  any  restriction  on  delisting  and  allow  delisting  subject  to
certain  conditions  such  as  minimum  notice  period  for  the  company,
exit offers to investors, etc. The entire class of the securities is called
for  redemption;  appropriate  notice  thereof  is  given;  funds  sufficient
for  the  payment  of  all  such  securities  are  deposited  with  an  agency
authorised to make such payments; and such funds are made available
to security holders.

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 10 of 39

4.12  The  Committee  therefore  felt  that,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that
delisting, especially of companies whose shares are regarded as value
investments by investors narrows the market and limits the choice for
investors.  In  the  current  liberalised  environment  and  in  a  market
driven  economy,  entry  and  exit  into  and  from  the  market  should  be
free within the regulatory framework. It would be desirable therefore
not to have any provision in the regulatory framework which may act
as  an  exit  barrier.    The  Committee  was  also  of  the  view  that  the
delisting  requirement  cannot  vary  according  to  the  ownership
structure  of  companies.  In  view  of  the  discussions  in  the  foregoing
paragraphs, the Committee therefore recommends that –
a)

there  should  be  no  prohibition  per  se  against  delisting  of
securities  provided  that  the  securities  of  company  have  been
listed for a minimum period of 3 years on any stock exchange.

b)

c)

there  should  not  be  any  selective  restriction  or  discrimination
against  any  class  of  companies  for  delisting.  However,  the
regulatory  framework  may  need  to  be  strengthened  to  prevent
any  misuse  by  the  companies  and  to  ensure  that  investors’
interests are protected at all times;

any  acquisition  of  shares  or  scheme  or  arrangement,  by
whatever  name  referred  to,  which  may  result  in  delisting  of
securities  shall  be  in  compliance  with  the  relevant  provisions
under  any  SEBI  regulation,  circular  or  guideline  and  the
provisions of the Listing Agreement so as to ensure protection
of investors’  interest.

4.13  The Committee was informed that the companies often use the route
of  share  buy  back  or  preferential  allotment  as  a  first  step  towards

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 11 of 39

delisting.  The  objective  of  enhancing  shareholder  value  by  buying
back  shares  out  of  surplus  funds  would  be  entirely  defeated,  if  the
shares  of  remaining  shareholders  do  not  continue  to  have  liquidity
which  listing  ensures.  It  was  also  brought  to  the  notice  of  the
Committee,  that  companies  usually  propose  buy  back  proposal  or
proposal for delisting when the share prices are low. While this would
make commercial sense to the company, it is perceived by investors to
be against their interest as they may get a very low price compared to
the value of the company.

4.14  The  Committee  noted 

that  under 

the  present  SEBI  circular
SMDRP/Policy/Cir-28/01  dated  May  02,  2001,  there  is  already  a
prohibition  against  using  buy  back  for  the  purpose  of  delisting.  The
Committee therefore recommends that –
SEBI should clarify once again that no company could use the buy-
back provision to delist the company.

Need  for  a  separate  and  comprehensive  delisting  provision  and  its
applicability of these provisions

4.15  The Committee noted that at present there is no single comprehensive
guideline  or  regulation  which  governs  permanent  delisting  of  shares
of a company from all stock exchanges. The present guidelines issued
by  SEBI  in  its  circular  dated  April  29,  1998  referred  to  in  earlier
paragraphs,  govern  voluntary  delisting  of  securities  of  companies  in
stock exchanges other than regional stock exchanges and compulsory
delisting by the stock exchanges under certain conditions. The SEBI
(Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  1997  govern

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 12 of 39

delisting  of  a  company  arising  from  fall  in  public  holding  to  10  per
cent or less as a result of a public offer. There is therefore a need to
harmonise 
in  various  guidelines  and
regulations  of  SEBI 
single
them  under  one 
regulation/guideline.

the  delisting  provisions 
and  bring 

4.16  The  Committee  however  felt  that  while  framing  the  separate
comprehensive delisting provisions, it must be ensured that there is no
scope  of  regulatory  arbitrage  between  these  provisions  and  the
relevant provisions in the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and
Takeovers) Regulations 1997. Otherwise there could be a possibility
that  companies  would  follow  the  more  advantageous  provision,  and
completely  bypass  the  others.  For  example,  if  the  comprehensive
delisting  provisions  lay  down  certain  principles  for  calculating  exit
price  for  the  minority  shareholders  which  are  different  from  the
provisions  in  regulation  21,  clause  (3)  sub  clause  (a)  of  the  SEBI
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations 1997,
then it would but be natural for companies to choose the route more
beneficial  to  them,  rendering  the  other  ineffective.  Such  situations
should  be  avoided.  In  such  situations,  the  comprehensive  delisting
procedure  recommended  by  the  Committee  should  be  followed.  The
Committee therefore recommends that –
There should be comprehensive provisions which should also include
procedures  governing  the  entire  subject  of  delisting  of  securities  of
companies, and should cover cases in which companies on their own
seek  delisting  of  their  securities  from  all  or  some  of  the  stock
exchanges,  as  well  as  those  where  the  stock  exchanges  can
compulsorily delist the securities of a company.

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 13 of 39

Applicability of the comprehensive delisting provisions

4.17  The Committee also recommends that

the comprehensive provisions for delisting will be applicable in cases
where a person in control of the management is seeking to consolidate
his  holdings  in  a  company,  in  a  manner  which  would  result  in  the
company being delisted, or in cases where as a result of a takeover
process, the public (non promoter holding) falls below the prescribed
threshold.

Principles for calculating the exit price for delisting of shares

4.18  As  has  been  discussed  before,  the  objections  and  criticisms  against
delisting seem to stem from the perceived inadequacy of the exit price
mechanism currently being used by the delisted companies, which is
based on the average of the preceding 26 weeks high and  low prices.
The arguments against this mechanism is that under depressed market
conditions, the exit price arrived on the basis of this principle does not
adequately  compensate  the  shareholder  for  the  permanent  loss  of
investment  opportunity,  especially  in  a  company  whose  shares  are
regarded  as  value  investment.  Views  of  certain  members  of  the
Committee were that the companies which have delisted, in particular
the MNCs, have offered a price which was at a premium to the price
calculated on the above basis and thus have adequately compensated
the  shareholder/investor  for  the  permanent 
investment
opportunity. The Committee examined various options in this context.

loss  of 

4.19  One such option was that of introducing a book building mechanism
which will allow the shareholders to bid to sell on the screen of any
stock exchange with nation wide access and the highest price at which
the maximum number of shareholders would be willing to sell should

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 14 of 39

be the offer price. This would allow the investor to take a considered
view  in  a  more  transparent  manner.  The  final  price  in  the  book
building  process  may  be  determined  as  the  price  at  which  the
maximum number of shares that have been offered. It would be up to
the acquirer to accept or not to accept the price. If the acquirer does
not accept the price, in that case, the company does not get delisted.
Since the company would continue to remain listed, the shareholders
would not stand to lose in any case.

4.20  It was felt that book building process would provide the transparent,
fair  and  reasonable  mechanism  for  pricing  of  the  shares  and  which
ensures investors’  participation in the whole process of delisting. The
acquirer / buyer is also not forced to buy the shares, unless the price
matches his business consideration. The investors would not also have
reason  to  complain  that  the  exit  price  is  unfair  to  them  as  they
themselves  arrived  at  the  price  through  a  participative  process.  It  is
expected that rational investors would quote the reasonable premium
in the book building.

4.21  The  Committee  also  examined  alternative  methods  of  arriving  at  a
minimum offer price. In this context the Committee took note of the
pricing principle in the present regulation 21, clause (3) sub clause (a)
of  the  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)
Regulations  1997.  Under  this  regulation  an  acquirer  is  required  to
make an offer to buy securities at the same offer price. The principle
to be followed is whether the acquirer makes an offer to buy 100% of
the securities or reaches through several stages of acquisition a level

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 15 of 39

of  90%  or  more,  he  has  to  make  an  offer  to  buy  the  remaining
securities  at  the  same  offered  price.  In  case  there  has  been  no
acquisition  of  shares  by  an  acquirer  who  could  be  the  majority
shareholder  or  a  person  in  the  control  of  the  management,  as  in  the
case  of  several  MNCs,  the  average  of  26  weeks  closing  highs  and
lows  was  being  taken  as  the  minimum  price  and  according  to  data
available, the offer for delisting was being made at a premium to this
minimum price. A cross section of investors, investor associations and
the  media  feel  that  in  such  cases,  the  principle  of  calculating  the
minimum offer price on the basis of average of weekly closing highs
and  lows  for  26  weeks  is  flawed,  because  if  the  market  sustains  a
declining trend over a over a long period, such a method is bound to
give a low minimum price. This would be unfair to the investors.

4.22  The Committee also examined the trend of market price of the shares
of a company to be delisted over a longer period. A long term trend
would  most  likely  cover  both  the  bullish  and  bearish  phases  of  the
market and hence would be secular without any deliberate bias in any
one direction. It would also be fair to the investors as it would match
their investment horizon which is generally long term. In this context,
the  Committee  also  looked  at  the  price  over  a  period  of  52  weeks
period.

4.23  The Committee compared the averages of closing highs and lows of
52 weeks and with those of averages of weekly closing highs and lows
for 26 weeks from the date of offer for companies which have already
delisted from BSE. It was found that in 14 out of 29 companies which

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 16 of 39

have been or are in the process of being delisted from the BSE, the 52
weeks average was greater than the 26 weeks average. The majority of
the  Committee  felt  that  it  could  be  desirable  to  arrive  at  a  price
through a transparent price discovery mechanism which will give all
the  shareholders  an  opportunity 
the  price
determination process. Accordingly, the Committee recommends that

to  participate 

in 

a). The exit price for delisting should be in accordance with the book

building process described in Annexure –1.

b). The offer price should have a floor price which will be the average

of 26 weeks traded price and without any cap of maximum price.

c). Market  Forces  of  demand  and  supply  should  determine  the  price

above the floor price.

d). The  stock  exchanges  would  provide  the  infrastructure  facility  to
enable  the  investors  to  see  the  price  on  the  screen  to  bring
transparency to the delisting process.

e). In the event of securities being delisted, the acquirer should allow a
further period of 6 months for any of the remaining shareholders to
tender shares at the same price.

f). To reduce the possibility of price manipulation, the scrips should be

kept under special watch by the stock exchanges.

g). To ascertain the genuineness of physical shares if tendered and to
avoid the bad papers, R&TA should be asked to co-operate with the
Clearing House / Clearing Corporation to determine the quality of
the papers upfront.

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 17 of 39

h). If the quantity eligible for acquiring shares at the final price offered
does  not  result  in  public  shareholding  falling  below  25%,  the
company would remain listed.

i).   The paid up share capital should not be extinguished as in the case

of buyback of shares.

j).  In case of partly paid-up shares, the price determined by the book
building process would be applicable to the extent the call has been
made  and  paid.  The  amount  of  consideration  for  the  departing
shares would be settled in cash.

4.24  However  the  representative  of  CII  did  not  agree  with  the  aforesaid

recommendation. His observations are quoted below:

“Comments on the Final Draft Report
Procedure for arriving at Exit Price for Delisting

While I am in agreement with the recommendation that the 26 week
average  should  be  the  minimum  price  in  case  of  an  open  offer  for
delisting, I have serious reservations against adopting the reverse book
building  method  for  arriving  at  the  exit  price  for  the  following
reasons:

?  First  of  all,  a  reverse  book  building  process  would  operate  in  a  restricted
audience,  unlike  in  an  IPO  which  is  open  to  the  general  public.  This  raises
doubts about the efficacy of the concept in a limited universe, since it is not a
free market; and hence makes the process prone to manipulation.

?  Any open offer for delisting should indicate the price that the buyer is willing
to pay. The requirement in case of reverse book building requires generating

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 18 of 39

offers  from  the  sellers  (shareholders)  who  have  no  indication  of  the  buyer’s
intention, or the price that the buyer is willing to pay for the strategic value of
the  company.  The  only  indication  the  shareholders  have  is  the  26  week
average. This asymmetry of information places the shareholders at a distinct
disadvantage,  which  may  cause  them  to  peg  their  offer  at  a  low  price,
particularly in weak markets. If the price quoted by the shareholders is low,
then  the  offer  would  go  through,  but  there  is  a  distinct  possibility  that  the
investor would not have got as high a price as the buyer was willing to pay,
which works against the shareholders’  interest.

Alternatively,  a  few  shareholders  who  do  not  have  the  motivation  to  offer
their  shares  can  derail 
through  manipulative  bidding  at
unrealistically  high  prices,  particularly  given  that  the  universe  of  sellers  is
limited to the existing shareholders.

the  process 

?  Further, the process builds in conditionality as regards the price as well as the
occurrence of the transaction itself. There is no guarantee that the buyer will
accept  the  book  built  price,  in  which  case  the  deal  falls  through,  thus
depriving shareholders who would have otherwise exited at a reasonable offer
price.

? 

In the event the acquirer is unable to get the company  delisted, or finds the
process  too  complex,  it  is  possible  for  the  acquirer  to  promote  a  100%
subsidiary  to  undertake  new  activities,  (as  is  permitted  under  current
regulations and has happened in some cases), thereby diluting the value of the
existing listed company. Thus while the company continues to remain listed,
its  value  would  get  eroded.  This  would  work  against  the  shareholders’
interest.

Therefore, I do not subscribe to the view that a reverse book building
process will bring about a more efficient price discovery and ensure
that the investors get a fair exit price. I recommend that we adopt the
minimum  offer  price  as  the  average  of  weekly  highs  and  lows  of
either 26 weeks or 52 weeks.”

Delisting from one or more stock exchanges

4.25  The Committee noted that as on March 31, 2002 total number of listed
companies  on  all  stock  exchanges  (excluding  double  counting)  was

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 19 of 39

9644. Of these, 5782 companies were listed and traded on the BSE,
which includes 1744 companies for which BSE is the Regional Stock
exchange. Most of the companies which are listed and traded on the
NSE are also listed and traded on the BSE. This implies that there are
3862  companies  which  are  listed  and  traded  in  one  or  many  of  the
stock exchanges excluding BSE and NSE.

4.26  The listed companies could thus be classified into three categories –
those  listed  only  on  the  BSE  and  NSE,  those  listed  on  the  BSE  and
NSE as well as on one or more of the other stock exchanges of which
one  would  be  a  regional  stock  exchange  for  a  company,  and  the
companies listed on one or more of the other stock exchanges but not
listed on the BSE and NSE.

4.27  The  Committee  was  of  the  view  that  so  long  as  a  security  of  a
company  remains  listed  on  a  stock  exchange  which  has  nation  wide
access and active trading viz. BSE and NSE, a shareholder would not
suffer in terms of liquidity even if the security is delisted from other
stock  exchanges  and  hence  no  exit  offer  need  be  made  to  their
shareholders.  But  the  converse  would  not  hold  good.  If  a  company
which is not listed either on the BSE or the NSE, seeks to delist from
its  regional  stock  exchange  or  any  other  stock  exchange  where  it  is
listed, the liquidity of the shareholders would suffer and an exit offer
would  have  to  be  made  to  their  shareholders.  The  Committee
therefore recommends -
a)

  a  company  which  is  listed  on  any  stock  exchange  may  be
allowed to delist from that stock exchange without an exit offer

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 20 of 39

being made to its shareholders provided that the securities of
the company are listed on BSE or NSE which have nationwide
reach. As the securities of the company would continue to be
listed  on  stock  exchanges  which  have  nation  wide  reach,
investors’  interests  would  not  be  jeopardized  and  hence  no
additional exit route need be separately provided to them;

b) 

in all other cases, viz. when a company which is listed on any
stock  exchange  or  stock  exchanges  other  than  BSE  or  NSE
seeks delisting, an exit offer must be made to the shareholders
in accordance with the recommendation in the paragraph 4.23
of this Report.

Abolition  of  the  concept  of  mandatory  listing  at  regional  stock
exchange

4.28  The concept of regional stock exchange has its genesis in the circular
issued  by  Ministry  of  Finance,  Government  of  India  vide  F.  NO.
14(2)/SE/85  dated  September  23,  1985  which  stipulated  that  all
existing  listed  companies  are  required  to  be  listed  also  on  the  stock
exchange located in the state in an area where the registered office or
the  main  works  /fixed  assets  of  the  company  are  situated.  This
stipulation  was  then  necessary,  as  in  the  absence  of  automation,  it
helped stock exchanges to cater to the need of the regional investors
and  that  of  the  industry  for  mobilization  and  regional  allocation  of
capital and resources. However, automated trading and expansion of
trading  terminals  have  made  capital  generation  and  allocation  at  the
national  level  much  easier  and  regional  stock  exchanges  virtually
redundant.

4.29  Market  design  and  structure  for  the  Indian  securities  market  have
undergone  several  far  reaching  changes  with  the  automation  of  the

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 21 of 39

stock  exchanges  and  the  availability  of  nation-wide  trading  facility
with the geographical spread of trading terminals of BSE and NSE to
nearly  400  cities  and  towns  across  the  country.  This  has  also  been
accompanied  with  the  loss  of  business  and  liquidity  at  the  regional
and small stock exchanges, which used to allow trading in the same
shares listed on BSE and NSE either as listed or permitted securities.
During 2001-02, there was no trading in 7 of the 21 stock exchanges
(excluding NSE and BSE). Decline in or absence of trading, in turn,
has resulted in increase in the number of inactive securities on those
stock exchanges. It has been pointed out to SEBI that in the absence
of a trading, listing of the companies in those stock exchanges hardly
serves  any  purpose  to  the  investors.  From  the  company’s  point  of
view  also,  listing  in  those  stock  exchanges  only  adds  to  its  cost  in
terms of listing fees, without any commensurate benefit either to the
investors  or  the  company.  The  Committee  was  informed  that  a
number  of  companies  which  are  listed  in  BSE  or  NSE,  have  been
approaching  stock  exchanges  and  SEBI  to  seek  permission  to  delist
from the regional stock exchange in which there is hardly any trading.
The Committee therefore recommends that –
a) 

the  MOF  circular  F.  NO.  14(2)/SE/85  dated  September  23,
1985 should be withdrawn;

b) 

there should not be any compulsion for the existing companies
to remain listed on any stock exchange merely because it is a
regional  stock  exchange  and  companies  should  have  the
freedom to list on a stock exchange of its choice.

Delisting of all or one class of securities

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 22 of 39

4.30  A question  arises  whether  in  the  case  of  a  company  which  has  both
shares and debentures listed on the stock exchanges, delisting of the
shares  should  also  automatically  entail  delisting  of  fully  and  partly
convertible debentures, warrants etc of the company. Clause 24 (a) of
the  Listing  Agreement  makes  it  obligatory  on  the  company  whose
securities  are  listed  to  make  an  application  to  the  stock  exchange  to
list  any  new  issue  of  securities.    While  in  all  cases  it  is  obligatory
under clause 8 of the SEBI Disclosure and Investor Protection (DIP)
Guidelines,  to  list  equity  shares  before  debt  instruments,  creating
exemptions  have  been  given  to  unlisted  companies  and  municipal
corporations, under the clause 8.2 of the DIP Guidelines to list debt
securities without getting the equity listed.  This implies that it should
be possible in principle to get debt instruments listed without listing of
equity.

4.31  There are arguments on both sides for allowing one class of securities
to remain listed while delisting other classes of securities.  Argument
for allowing debentures to remain listed when shares of the company
are delisted, is that debentures are fixed tenure instruments and listing
could  still  provide  some  liquidity  to  investors  till  instrument  is
extinguished  on  maturity.    The  counter  argument  is  that  sufficient
continuous  disclosures  may  not  be  available  once  the  company’s
shares are delisted. The stock exchange will also not be able to redress
any investor grievance related to the past equity shares as the it will
no  longer  have  any  jurisdiction  over  the  instrument.  In  this  context,
the  Committee  noted  that  equity  and  fixed  income  instruments  are
different  class  of  securities.  The  equity  securities  holders  are  the

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 23 of 39

owners and are the last in priority in the realisation of capital in case
of  liquidation  of  a  company.  The  fixed  income  instruments  have
higher priorities in such situations.  In some of the international stock
exchanges, securities can be listed by class. The Committee therefore
recommends that –
even  if  the  shares  of  a  company  are  delisted,  the  fixed  income
securities  may  continue  to  remain  listed  on  the  stock  exchange.  If
however  a  company  has  a  convertible  instrument  outstanding,  it
should not be permitted to delist its equity shares till the exercise of
the conversion options.

Compulsory Delisting of Companies by the Stock Exchanges

4.32  Under  the  current  procedures,  companies 

listed  on  the  stock
exchanges  enter  into  a  listing  agreement  with  the  respective  stock
exchanges whereby the companies agree to make submissions/comply
with various requirements set out in the agreement according the time
frames  prescribed.  It  was  felt  that  it  would  not  be  prudent  to  allow
continued  trading  in  the  security  of  companies  which  default  in
making  submissions  and  disclosures  as  laid  down  in  the  listing
agreement,  some  of  which  may  affect  the  market  prices  of  the
security. In such cases the stock exchanges, as first step, intimate the
companies  about  non  compliance.  In  case  of  persisting  non
compliance  by  a  company  despite  follow  up  by  the  stock  exchange,
the stock exchange has little choice but to suspend the trading in the
securities until the company complies with all the requirements. It was
informed  by  the  stock  exchanges  that  there  were  a  large  number  of
such companies, mostly illiquid or infrequently traded, which are not
complying  with  the  requirements  of  the  listing  agreement.  In  such

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 24 of 39

cases the stock exchanges should delist the securities of the companies
and no compensation be paid to the investors.

4.33  The Committee was informed that investors feel that stock exchanges
by  suspending/delisting  the  shares  of  the  companies  without  giving
them  an  opportunity 
the  hands  of
unscrupulous  promoters/directors  of  erring  companies,  and  in  the
process  penalising  the  investors.  At  the  same  time  not  taking  action
against  the  company,  may  adversely  affect  the  interest  of  new
investors who may be investing in the shares of these companies.

to  exit,  are  playing 

into 

4.34  The stock exchanges informed that there are companies which have a
large  pendency  of  investor  complaints  for  a  long  time  but  do  not
respond to the stock exchanges, and companies which may not have
investor  complaints,  but  the  shares  continue  to  be  listed  without
trading for more than three years. Besides, there is also a large number
of  very  small  cap  and  medium  sized  companies  whose  shares  are
illiquid  and  have  been  suspended  by  the  stock  exchanges  for  more
than  six  months.  For  all  practical  purposes,  there  is  hardly  any
investor  interest  in  these  companies.  The  stock  exchanges  felt  that
such companies were adding on to their cost of compliance and hence
there was a need to evolve a mechanism for delisting these companies
from  the  stock  exchanges.  In  this  context  the  Committee’s  attention
was invited to the existing SEBI circular which sets out the norms for
compulsory delisting by the stock exchanges, which include minimum
percentage  of  floating  stock,  minimum  trading  level  of  shares,
financial/  business  aspects,  track  record  of  compliance  with  the

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 25 of 39

conditions  of  listing  agreement,  track  record  of  promoter  directors,
whereabouts  of  the  company.  The  circular  also  prescribes  the
procedure  to  be  followed  for  compulsory  delisting  by  the  stock
exchanges. The Committee therefore recommends that -
a) 

stock  exchanges  should  be  empowered 
those
companies which have been suspended for a minimum period of
six months for non-compliance with the Listing Agreement.

to  delist 

b)

c) 

d) 

as  an  alternative  to  the  norms  and  procedure  laid  down  in
Annexure  II  of  the  existing  SEBI  Circular  SMDRP/CIR–14/98
dated  April  29,  1998  the  stock  exchange  should  give  a  show
cause  notice  to  these  companies  besides  adequate  and  wide
public notice through newspapers and on the notice boards of
the stock exchanges;

these  companies  should  be  brought  into  the  framework  of
arbitration  mechanism  of  the  stock  exchanges  so  that  the
investors  could  have  the  opportunity  of  receiving  monetary
compensation;

the Department of Company Affairs may be requested to amend
the Companies Act for allowing the stock exchanges to make an
application  for  winding  up  of  the  company.  However,  such
petitions  against  companies  should  be  filed  by  the  stock
exchanges only on the basis of investor complaints.

Harmonising the level of public holding

4.35  The Listing Agreement provides for a minimum level of non promoter
shareholding  in  a  company  as  a  condition  for  continuous  listing  to
serve  as  a  measure  for  investor  protection.  The  objective  of  this
quantitative  condition  is  to  ensure  availability  of  minimum  floating
stock  on  a  continuous  basis.  The  company  cannot  make  preferential
allotment  or  an  offer  to  buy  back  its  securities,  if  such  allotment  or
offer results in reducing the non-promoter holding below the limit of

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 26 of 39

4.36 

public  shareholding  as  specified  at  the  time  of  initial  listing.  The
requirements of public holding at the time of initial listing have varied
from time to time over a wide range from 60% to 40%. Currently this
level of public shareholding required at the time of listing is 25% of
the share capital of the company in most cases and 10% under certain
conditions.  The  variation  in  the  minimum  level  of  public  or  non
promoter holding from company to company depending on when the
company  was  initially  listed,  creates  a  non  level  playing  field  for
companies in different situations for example in the case of buy back,
takeovers etc.

 It is necessary to harmonise the condition for minimum level of non
promoter  holding  in  different  regulations  to  bring  in  greater  clarity
and to provide for a level playing field for all companies.  To achieve
this,  first,  uniform  terminology  needs  to  be  used  for  public  holding
and non-promoter holding, as public holding can also include holding
by  the  acquirer,  while  non-promoter  holding  excludes  the  acquirers
holding.  The two terms have two different meanings and are used in
different  contexts  for  different  purposes.    Second,  it  would  be
desirable that the level of shareholding for the purpose of continuous
listing and Takeover Regulations are made the same. This could either
be at the level of 25 per cent or 10 per cent for non-promoter holding
(which excludes the shareholding by the acquirer who may or may not
have  been  the  promoter  of  the  company).  The  Committee  therefore
recommends that –
the requirement of continued listing be made as non-promoter holding
of  25  %  or  10%  as  per  exemptions  provided  in  Rule  19  (2)  (b)  of

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 27 of 39

SC(R)  Rules  for  public  shareholding  taking  into  account  the
exemption given under Rule 19 (2) (7).

4.37  Currently the SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
Regulations, 1997 allows acquisition up to 90 per cent and thereafter
provides  for  acquisition  of  the  remaining  shareholding.  This  implies
that  a  company  under  these  Regulations  can  remain  listed  with  a
public holding of even 10 per cent (for 3 months) and less than 25 per
cent  for  all  times  to  come.  Under  Clause  40  A  (i)  of  the  Listing
Agreement a company must have on a continuous basis the minimum
non-promoter holding at the level of public shareholding as required
at the time of listing, and if the non-promoter holding as on April 1,
2001 was less than the limit of public shareholding as required at the
time  of  initial  listing,  the  company  would  have  to  increase  the  non-
promoter holding to at least 10 per cent within 1 year.  If the company
fails to do so, then it would be required to make an offer to buy the
remaining  shareholding  as  provided  in  the  Takeover  Regulations.
There  is  thus  a  dichotomy  between  the  provisions  for  continuous
listing which varies from company to company and the provisions of
the Takeover Regulations.

4.38  In  the  case  of  a  rights  issue,  all  shareholders  are  given  equal
opportunity to subscribe the securities at a pre-determined price. It is
possible  that  the  promoter  or  persons  in  the  control  of  management
may by subscribing to the unsubscribed portion in a rights issue cross
the level of 90% which would in contravention of the Clause 40 A (i)
of  the  listing  agreement.  The  Takeover  Regulations  as  mentioned

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 28 of 39

earlier allows an acquirer to cross the level of 90% provided he inter
alia  agrees  to  buy  the  remaining  shares.  These  two  conditions  also
need to be harmonized. The Committee therefore recommends that -
in case of rights issue, allotment to the promoters or the persons in
control of the management may be allowed even if they subscribe to
unsubscribe  portion  which  may  result  in  the  non  promoter  holding
falling below the permissible minimum level, provided that adequate
disclosures have been made in the offer document to that effect and
provided further that they agree to buy out the remaining holdings at
the  price  of  right  issue  or  offer  for  sale  to  bring  the  non-promoter
holding at the level of 25% or 10% (as the case may be ) to remain the
company listed.

Central Listing Authority

4.39  Multiple  listing  of  the  same  security  is  permitted  under  the  present
rules and regulations of the stock exchanges. At present, a company
has  to  apply  for  listing  permission  individually  to  each  stock
exchange,  which  has  been  mentioned 
in  the  offer  document.
Situations have arisen, where a listing application has been accepted
by one stock exchange but declined by another. It is also not certain
whether all stock exchanges have equal capability of due diligence for
scrutinising the listing applications. In the view of the Committee, this
calls for an urgent need of institutionalizing a common mechanism to
scrutinise  all  listing  applications  on  any  stock  exchanges,  to  bring
about uniformity in the due diligence process. Setting up of a Central
Listing Authority (CLA) could help in achieving these objectives. The
Committee  noted  that  such  an  authority  exists  in  the  UK  under  the
aegis of the Financial Services Authority.

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 29 of 39

4.40  The Committee also noted that as there are 23 stock exchanges in the
country, post demutualisation of the stock exchanges, there would be
a  likely  change  in  the  structure  and  number  of  the  stock  exchanges.
While the number of stock exchanges may reduce in number, several
stock  exchanges  may  still  remain  and  the  issuers  may  like  to  list  its
securities more than one stock exchange besides BSE and NSE. The
BSE and NSE have entry norms in terms of minimum capital which
are  different  from  other  stock  exchanges.    While  it  is  possible  that
BSE  and  NSE  may  raise  the  entry  barriers  further,  multiple  listing
may  still  remain  relevant.    This  situation  further  underlines  the
importance  and  the  need  for  CLA  so  that  uniformity  in  the  level  of
due  diligence  is  achieved  across  all  stock  exchanges  in  scrutinizing
the  listing  application  of  any  company  seeking  to  list  on  any  stock
exchange including BSE and NSE. This will also help the companies
reduce time and cost for listing.

4.41  The Committee extensively discussed the various aspects of the CLA.
It was of the view that CLA should be set up under the aegis of SEBI
and derive powers from SEBI Act or its Regulation. The Committee
therefore recommends the following -
a)  to  bring  about  the  uniformity  in  the  exercise  of  due  diligence  in
scrutinizing  listing  applications,  a  separate  agency  be  formed
designated as the Central Listing Authority (CLA);

b)  the initial role of the CLA may be confined to scrutinizing listing
agreement  and  reviewing  the  provisions  of  Listing  Agreement
from time to time;

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 30 of 39

c)    it  would  be  up  to  SEBI  to  expand  the  scope  of  CLA  to  include
monitoring  and  compliance  with  the  Listing  Agreement  at  later
date;

d)  the CLA will be suitably empowered by SEBI;

e)  a  company  seeking  listing  of  fresh  securities  would  make  an
application  in  a  prescribed  format  listing  first  to  the  CLA.  The
CLA  should  give  its  opinion  within  30  days  after  submission  of
application.  After  receiving  the  approval  of  CLA,  the  company
would be free to apply to any stock exchange along with the letter
of  approval  of  CLA.  The  stock  exchange  would  independently
decide on whether to list the security or not with reference to its
listing criteria and in case it does not list the security, it shall give
its reasons in writing. The stock exchange shall convey its decision
within  the  time  frame  already  prescribed  under  the  applicable
regulations.  The  decision  of  the  stock  exchange  would  be  appeal
able to the Securities Appellate Tribunal;

f)  the  members  of  the  CLA  should  not  exceed  11  and  CLA  may  be
chosen  from  among  the  judiciary,  lawyers,  and  people  having
expertise  in  securities  market  regulation,  financial  experts,
academicians  and  Investor  associations.  4  members  of  the  CLA
should  always  be  drawn  from  the  stock  exchanges  who  would
provide  the  CLA  with  expertise  and  experience  in  the  area  of
scrutinizing applications for listing;

g)  the quorum will be of 4 members. The representative of the stock
exchanges where listing may be sought by the company, would not
form a part of quorum of the CLA. Of the members present at the
time of granting approval to a listing application, 50% should be
non-stock exchange members;

h)  SEBI would draw up a panel of names for members of the CLA;

i)  the term of a member shall be for a period of 3 years unless the
member  has  been  found  unfit  for  any  reason  or  the  member  has
himself  expressed  his  desire  to  discontinue.  No  member  may  be
given re-appointment after two terms of 3 years each;

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 31 of 39

j)  to  enable  the  CLA  to  function  efficiently,  it  should  have  a
permanent  secretariat  which  may  be  provided  by  the  stock
exchanges / SEBI who may depute personnel to the CLA to enable
CLA to analyse and scrutinize applications, convene meetings etc;

k)  CLA  may  charge  a  reasonable  processing  fee  from  the  company

making application for listing to it;

l)  the CLA will be accountable to SEBI and shall provide a quarterly

report on their activities in a specified format to SEBI;

m) SEBI  would  periodically  review  the  performance  and  working  of
CLA  based  on  the  reports  and  may  reconstitute  the  CLA  as  and
when necessary.

Reinstatement of delisted securities

4.42  The  Committee  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  existing  provisions  for  the
reinstatement  of  the  delisted  securities  should  continue  and  be
permitted by the stock exchanges. The companies seeking re-listing of
securities which were earlier delisted by the stock exchange would be
required  to  make  a  fresh  application  after  a  reasonable  period  of  say
two years. The application for re-listing would be considered by first
by  the  CLA  and  thereafter  by  the  stock  exchange  based  on  the
respective norms/criteria for listing prevalent at the time of making the
application. The Committee therefore recommends that –
reinstatement  of  delisted  securities  should  be  permitted  by  the  stock
exchanges with a cooling period of 2 years. In other words, relisting
of  securities  should  be  allowed  after  2  years  of  delisting  of  the
securities.  It  would  be  based  on  the  respective  norms  /  criteria  for
listing at the time making the application and the application will be
initially scrutinized by the CLA.

5. 

Implementing the recommendations of the Committee

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 32 of 39

6. 

7. 

The Committee felt that SEBI should decide the appropriate manner
to  implement  the  delisting  guidelines  either  through  a  circular  or
through a separate regulation.

Review of the Listing Agreement
The  Committee  would  submit  its  report  on  the  review  of  the  listing
agreement in Part II of the Report.

Acknowledgements
The  Committee  wishes  to  place  on  record  the  contribution  of  Shri
Prithvi  Haldea,  Managing  Director,  Prime  Database;  Shri  Raghavan
Putran, Director, National Stock Exchange; Shri P. S. Reddy, General
Manager,  The  Stock  Exchange,  Mumbai  and  the  officers  of  the
Secondary  Market  Department  of  SEBI  namely  Shri  P  K  Bindlish,
General  Manager;  Shri  Umesh  Kumar,  Manager;  and  Ms.  Deepti
Vaish, Trainee Officer for their valuable assistance in the conduct of
meetings,  providing  information  and  analysis  for  the  purpose  of  the
Committee and other support services.

The Committee on Delisting of Shares

Sucheta Dalal

R. M. Joshi

Kamala K.

Pratip Kar (Convenor) P. Krishnamurthy Vipul Modi

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 33 of 39

Ravi Narain

T. R. Ramaswami

D. N. Raval

A. C. Singhvi

Dr. Manoj Vaish 

R. Vasudevan

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 34 of 39

Abbreviations used in this Report

1.  Committee
2.  Companies Act
3.  BSE
4.  NSE
5.  MNC
6.  SCR Act
7.  SCR Rules
8.  SEBI
9.  SEBI Act
10. SAT
11. CLA

: The Committee on Delisting of Shares
: The Companies Act, 1956
: The Stock exchange, Mumbai
: National Stock exchange of India Limited
: Multi National Company
: The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956
: The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957
: The Securities and Exchange Board of India
: The Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992
: Securities Appellate Tribunal
: Central Listing Authority

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 35 of 39

Book Building Process

Annexure 1

Process Flow

1.  As  and 

trigger 

is  reached 

then 

the  appropriate 

the  dominant
promoter/shareholder  group  of  the  company  (the  acquirer)  which
proposes  to  acquire  shares  will  be  required  to  make  an  open  offer  to
acquire shares through this book building process.

2.  The  acquirer  shall  appoint  a  merchant  banker  and  make  a  public
announcement  regarding  the  book  build  process  making  appropriate
disclosures.  (decision  on  floor  price,  methodology  to  be  adopted  for
determination  of  acceptable  price,  period  for  which  the  offer  shall  be
valid etc.)

3.  The floor price at which the acquisition shall be specified but no ceiling

price shall be specified.

4.  The acquirer shall be required to keep an deposit in an escrow account.

(the amount may be based on the floor price indicated).

5.  The book building process should require that all stock exchange centers
are covered through the electronic book building with a minimum of at
least thirty centers.

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 36 of 39

6.  The  offer  to  buy  shall  remain  open  to  the  shareholders  for  a  minimum

period of three days.

7.  The  final  buy-back  price  may  be  determined  as  the  price  at  which  the
maximum  number  of  shares  that  have  been  offered.  The  acquirer  may
accept or not accept the price. If the price is accepted then the acquirer
will be required to accept all offers upto and including the final price but
may  not  have  to  accept  higher  priced  offers.  The  same  is  illustrated
below :

Offer Quantity
50
82
108

Offer Price
120
125
130

27
5

135
140

Remarks
Floor price

price 

Final 
quantity  offered 
maximum).

(as
is

If final price is accepted the acquirer will have to accept offers up to
and  including  the  final  price  i.e.  240  shares  at  the  final  price  of  Rs.
130/-.

The book build process
?  Investors may approach identified trading members for placing offers on
the on-line electronic system. The format of the offer form and the details
that it must contain should be prescribed.

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 37 of 39

?  The  investors  shall  be  required  to  deposit  the  shares  offered  with  the
trading members prior to placement of orders. Alternately they may mark
a  pledge  for  the  same  to  the  trading  member.  The  trading  members  in
turn  may  place  these  securities  are  margin  with  the  exchanges/clearing
corporations.

?  The  offers  placed  in  the  system  shall  have  an  audit  trail  in  the  form  of
confirmations which gives broker ID details with time stamp and unique
order number.

?  At  the  end  of  the  book  build  period  the  merchant  banker  to  the  book
building  exercise  shall    announce  in  the  press  and  to  the  concerned
exchanges the final price and the acceptance (or not) of the price by the
acquirer.

?  The  acquirer  shall  make 

the  requisite  funds  available  with 

the
exchange/clearing corporation on the final settlement day (which shall be
three days from the end of the book build period). The trading members
shall  correspondingly  make  the  shares  available.  On  the  settlement  day
the funds and securities shall be paid out in a process akin to secondary
market settlements.

?  This entire exercise shall only be available for demat shares. For holders
of physical certificates the acquirer shall keep the offer open for a period

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 38 of 39

of 15 days from the final settlement day for the shareholders to lodge the
certificates with custodian(s) specified by the merchant banker.

***********

 Report of the Delisting Committee- Part I 

Page 39 of 39

