 

Report on  

Public Issues by 

Insurance Companies  

 

 

SEBI Committee on Disclosures and Accounting 

Standards (SCODA) 

 

 

 

Page | 1 
 

Table of contents 

Section No 

Section 

1 

 

2 

 

3 

 

4 

 

5 

 

 

Annexure 

Number 

Background 

 

Constitution of the Sub-group 

 

Scope of the Sub-group 

 

Recommendations of Sub-group 

 

Other issues raised by IRDA  

 

List of Annexure 

Details of Annexure 

Annexure  I 

Industry specific risk factors for insurance sector 

Annexure II 

Overview of Insurance Industry 

Annexure III 

Comparison table on disclosures made in offer 

documents of life insurance companies in other 

jurisdictions 

Annexure IV 

Glossary of terms used in Insurance Industry 

 

Page | 2 
 

Page 

Number  

3 

 

3 

 

4 

 

4 

 

10 

 

Page 

No. 

13 

21 

23 

29 

Public Issues by Insurance Companies 

1.  Background: 

 

1.1. There have recently been media reports that insurance companies in India are planning 

to  raise  money  from  the  capital  market  through  initial  public  offers.  Till  now,  no 

company from the insurance sector has accessed the capital markets in India. Since the 

nature of business and risks involved in insurance sector are of a different kind, it was 

felt that there is a need to review whether the present disclosure requirements in offer 

documents  as  well  as  those  on  a  continuous  basis  are  suitable  and  sufficient  for  the 

insurance companies. 

1.2.  In  this  context,  SEBI  has  been  in  receipt  of  suggestions/  observations  from  merchant 

bankers  and 

international  consultants  on  additional 

insurance  sector-specific 

disclosures.  SEBI  has  also  received  suggestions/comments  from  IRDA  on  the 

disclosures  in  offer  documents  by  insurance  companies.  The  areas  of  disclosures  as 

identified  taking  into  account  the  practices  followed  in  other  jurisdictions  and 

suggestions/ comments of the merchant bankers and IRDA were discussed in the SEBI 

Committee on Disclosures and Accounting Standards (SCODA) in its meeting held on 

August 24, 2009.  

1.3.  SCODA during its deliberations suggested that the suitability/sufficiency of the existing 

provisions of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations to insurance companies may be examined.  

 

2.  Constitution of the Sub-group: 

2.1.In  order  to  examine  the  extant  regulatory  requirements  vis  a  vis  the  disclosure 

requirements  for  insurance  companies,  SCODA  decided  to  constitute  a  sub-group 

comprising following members: 

Sl 

1. 

2. 

3. 

Name 

Designation 

Organization 

Ms. Dipti Neelakantan   MD & Group COO 

JM Financials Ltd 

Shri Prithvi Haldea 

CMD 

Prime Database Ltd 

*Shri R K Sharma 

Deputy Director 

Insurance Regulatory and 

Development Authority 

Page | 3 
 

Sl 

Name 

Designation 

Organization 

(IRDA) 

4. 

5. 

6. 

Dr. S. Subramanian 

Head, IBD 

Enam Securities Ltd 

Shri Shrawan Jalan 

Director 

Ernst & Young 

*Shri Sunil Kadam 

General Manager 

Securities and Exchange 

Board of India (SEBI) 

*  Shri  R  K  Sharma,  Deputy  Director,  IRDA  and  Shri  Sunil  Kadam,  General  Manager,  SEBI 
replaced Ms Mamta Suri, Joint Director, IRDA and Shri Parag Basu, General Manager, SEBI, 
respectively due to internal changes in their respective organizations. 

 

2.2 The  group  places  on  record  its  appreciation  for  the  valuable  contribution  made  by  Ms 

Lakha  Nair,  Enam  securities  Ltd,  Shri  Sanjay  Purao,  Deputy  General  Manager,  SEBI 

and    Shri  E  Balasubramanian,  Assistant  General  Manager,  SEBI  in  preparation  of  this 

report. 

 

3.  Scope of the Sub-group: 

The following scope of work was identified by the sub-group:  

i. 

Provisions of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations vis a vis insurance companies 

ii.  Disclosures by insurance companies 

iii.  Continuous disclosure requirements for insurance companies 

 

4.  Recommendations of Sub-group 

4.1. Amendment to SEBI(ICDR) Regulations 

The provisions of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations have been examined primarily with regard 

to its suitability and sufficiency with respect to disclosures by insurance companies. The 

provisions of SEBI (ICDR) were discussed. The sub-group agreed that the provisions of 

SEBI  (ICDR)  Regulations  shall  be  applicable  to  insurance  companies.  The  sub-group 

after  deliberations  gave  their  comments  on  certain  provision  of  the  SEBI  (ICDR) 

Regulations along with the recommendations.  

The recommendations of the sub-group are as follows:  

Page | 4 
 

a)  Monitoring Agency: Regulation 16(1) of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations provides that if 

the issue size exceeds Rs. 500 crore, the use of issue proceeds has to be monitored 

by  a  public  financial  institution  or  a  scheduled  commercial  bank.  The  Regulation 

also states that the said provision is not applicable in case of issues made by a bank 

or a financial institution. Sub-group noted that the said  dispensation was given as 

banks  generally  raise  funds  to  meet  the  capital  adequacy  norms  set  out  and 

monitored  by  RBI,  the  sectoral  regulator.  Sub-group  further  noted  that  in  case  of 

insurance companies too, the funds would be raised primarily to maintain/enhance 

solvency  requirement,  as  stipulated  by  IRDA.  Further,  IRDA  stipulates  periodic 

reporting  of  solvency  ratios  and  has  also  specified  investment  regulations  for 

investing  the  funds  raised  for  meeting  the  solvency  margin.    In  view  of  the  above, 

the  sub-group  recommends  that  insurance  companies  may  be  exempted  from  the 

provision  of  Regulation  16  of  SEBI  (ICDR)  Regulations  in  line  with  exemption 

given to banks and financial institutions. 

b)  Disclaimer  clause:  In  the  case  of  banks,  section  XI  (K)  of  part  A  of  Schedule 

VII  of  SEBI  (ICDR)  Regulations  provide  for  disclosure  of  a  disclaimer  clause 

of RBI. Similarly, a disclaimer clause of IRDA may be provided for in the offer 

documents of insurance companies.  

4.2.Disclosures by Insurance Companies: 

4.2.1.  Industry- specific Risk Factors for Insurance Companies:  

The insurance industry is different from other industries and has risks which are 

unique  to  it.  In  order  to  get  an  understanding  of  risks  specific  to  the  insurance 

industry,  offer  documents  of  certain  insurance  companies  which  came  out  with 

issue  of  capital  in  other  jurisdictions  were  studied.  Based  on  the  risk  factors 

disclosed  in  such  offer  documents,  following  are  the  minimum  broad  industry 

specific risk areas that needs to be disclosed: 

i.  Claims  arising  out  of  catastrophic  losses  (natural  and  man-made),  which 

could  materially  and  adversely  impact  the  profitability  or  cash  flow  of  the 

insurance companies.  

Page | 5 
 

ii.  Concentrated surrenders which may materially affect cash flows, results of 

operations and financial condition.  

iii.  Differences  in  future  actual  claims  resulting  from  the  assumptions  used  in 

pricing and establishing reserves for insurance and annuity products which 

may  materially affect earnings.  

iv. 

Risk  with  reference  to  concentration  by  region/type  of  policies  of  the 

insurance company. 

v. 

The  assumptions  based  on  which  the  embedded  value  is  calculated  and 

disclosed may vary significantly from time to time / among industry players.  

vi.  Deviations in mortality/morbidity rates from those predicted in determining 

reserve amounts. 

vii.  Deviations  in  persistency/lapse  rates  from  those  predicted  in  determining 

reserve amounts 

viii. 

Inability  to  attract  and  retain  productive  agents  in  a  growing  competitive 

ix. 

x. 

business environment.  

Fluctuations in reserves due to guaranteed benefits 

Inability  to  obtain  reinsurance  on  a  timely  basis  or  at  all,  which  results  in  

bearing 

  increased  risks  or  reduce  the  level  of  our  underwriting 

commitments.  

xi.  Default  by one or more  of  our reinsurers which could materially affect the 

financial condition and results of operations.  

Regulatory restrictions on investments by  insurance companies  

Exposure  to  recovery  related  risks  including  for  foreclosure  of  the 

xii. 

xiii. 

mortgages 

xiv. 

Inability  to accurately predict benefits, claims and other costs or to manage 

such  costs  through  loss  limitation  methods,  which  could  have  a  material 

adverse effect on the operations and financial condition 

The sub-group recommends that the aforementioned list may act as guidance for 

companies while disclosing the risk factors in the offer documents. The sub-group 

also  compiled detailed risk factors  for  insurance companies which are placed at 

Annexure I.  

Page | 6 
 

The sub-group recommends that: 

a.  The detailed risk factors as identified by sub-group may be placed on the 

website  of  IRDA  which  may  act  as  guidance  to  insurance  companies 

coming out with IPO. 

b.  SEBI may prescribe the disclosure of aforementioned list of risk factors in 

the offer documents of insurance companies through circular or standard 

observations. 

4.2.2.  Disclosure on Overview of  the Insurance Industry: 

The  SEBI  (ICDR)  Regulation  does  not  prescribe  the  format  or  the  contents  of 

industry  overview  which  need  to  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  documents  for  any 

industry. However, considering  the fact that no insurance company in India has 

come  out  with  an  issue  so  far,  it  is  felt  necessary  that  the  investors  get  a  broad 

overview of the insurance industry. In view of this, broad parameters under which 

the disclosure on insurance industry overview may be made have been listed and 

placed in Annexure II.  

The  sub-group  recommends  that  this list  may  be  placed  in  the  website  of  IRDA, 

which may act as guidance for insurance companies coming out with issues.  

 

4.2.3.  Disclosure of Financial Information: 

It is observed that the components of financial statements of insurance companies 

are significantly different from other companies. An insurance company prepares 

two types of income accounts i.e. policy holder’s account (Revenue account) and 

shareholder’s account (profit and loss account). IRDA has prescribed the formats 

in which the financials of the insurance companies need to be submitted to them 

on  a  periodic  basis.  On  the  other  hand,  provisions  regarding  disclosure  of 

financial information in SEBI (ICDR) Regulations are general and are applicable 

to  all  companies.  The  subgroup  noted  that  banking  companies  follow  format  of 

financial statements prescribed under Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and similarly 

insurance companies may follow formats specified by IRDA.  

Page | 7 
 

Sub-group  recommended  that  the  financial  disclosure  for  insurance  companies 

may be as per the format specified by IRDA.   

 

4.2.4.  Specific Disclosures which are followed in other Jurisdictions: 

The  sub-group  carried  out  an  analysis  of  the  specific  disclosures  which  are 

followed  in  other  jurisdictions.  A  detailed  comparative  chart  along  with  the 

comments  of  the  IRDA  on  each  disclosure  item  in  case  of  life  insurance 

companies is attached as Annexure III. It is observed that the extant disclosure 

norms prescribed by IRDA are by and large at par with the international practice 

in vogue in various jurisdictions.  

 

Sub-group recommends that following additional disclosures applicable in other 

jurisdictions shall be included in the offer documents of life insurance companies 

i.  Gross premium- along with Geographic segmentation 

ii.  Cross selling 

iii.  Distribution network 

iv. 

Persistency 

v.  Operating expense ratio 

vi. 

Investment yield 

vii. 

Embedded value Report comprising of: 

(cid:173)  New Business Value  

(cid:173)  Value of in force business 

(cid:173)  Embedded value  

viii. 

Investment  of  above  5%  of  total  Funds    in  each  sector  through  equity  & 

bonds 

Reinsurance  

Interest rate sensitivity 

Liability for future policy benefits and policy holders account balances. 

ix. 

x. 

xi. 

xii.  NBAP 

xiii.  Manner  of  arriving  at  unrealized  gain/losses  –under  IFRS  or  Indian 

equivalent 

Page | 8 
 

 

As  regards  the  disclosure  on  NBAP  (New  Business  Achieved  Profit)  IRDA  has 

reservations on mandating the said disclosure for insurance companies due to lack 

of uniformity/standardization of approach adopted for calculation, as of now.   

Considering  the  nascent  stage  of  the  insurance  industry  in  India  and  lack  of 

understanding of this business by investors in general, the sub-group felt that 

there is a need for an expert opinion on  both the Embedded Value (EV) and 

New  Business  Value  (NBV)  which  together  reflect  the  fair  value  of  the 

business  of  an  insurance  company.  Accordingly,  sub-group  recommends  that 

report  of  an  independent  actuary  on  the  EV  and  NBV  of  the  insurance 

company  should  be  made  a  part  of  the  offer  document.  The  contents  and  

format  of  the  EV/NBV  reports  and  criteria  for  actuaries  who  are  authorized 

to prepare such report may be prescribed by IRDA.  

The  sub-group  recommends 

that  SEBI  may  mandate 

the  disclosure  of 

aforementioned  list  of  disclosure  items  in  the  offer  documents  of  insurance 

companies through circular or standard observations. 

4.2.5.  Glossary of terms used in the Insurance Industry:  

In order to familiarize the investors with terms used in insurance industry and to 

standardize the definition and understanding of such terms, the sub-group felt that 

a  “Glossary  of  the  terms  used  in  Insurance  industry”  may  be  prepared.  IRDA 

provided a “Glossary of the terms used in Insurance industry” which is placed in 

Annexure  IV.  This  glossary  of  terms  may  act  as  guidance  for  insurance 

companies coming out with issues.  

The  sub  group  recommends  that  the  glossary  may  be  placed  on  the  website  of 

IRDA. 

4.2.6.  Continuous Disclosure Requirements for  Insurance Companies: 

The continuous disclosure requirements i.e the disclosure/reporting requirements 

of  companies  after  its  shares  are  listed  at  the  stock  exchanges  are  prescribed 

through the listing agreement. The provisions of the listing agreement have been 

examined  in  light  of  continuous  disclosure  requirements  of  the  insurance 

Page | 9 
 

companies. It may be noted that clause 41 of the listing agreement prescribes the 

format  in  which  the  listed  companies  are  required  to  disclose  the  financial 

information  on  a  quarterly  basis  to  the  stock  exchanges.  Further,  a  separate 

format  of  financial  and  a  format  of  limited  review  report  has  been  provided  for 

banks under the clause 41 of the listing agreement. On the same lines, a separate 

format  of  financial  information  and  a  format  of  limited  review  report  were 

recommended for the insurance companies. 

SCODA suggested the sub-group to re-work on the formats specified in Clause 41 

of the Listing Agreement and retain only critical portions, as the same needs to be 

published  in  the  newspapers.  Further,  SCODA  suggested  that  the  sub-group 

should  classify  those  disclosures  which  need  to  be  filed  with  the  exchanges  and 

those which need to be published.  

5.  Other issues raised by IRDA: 

5.1. Advertisements  regarding  public  issues:  IRDA  requires  that  all  advertisements 

issued  by  insurance  companies  be  filed  with  IRDA  for  vetting  at  least  30  days  before 

publishing the same.  

Sub-group noted that issue advertisements are typically made post the filing of the red 

herring prospectus which leaves a very short time between the date of filing of RHP and 

issue  opening  date.  Sub-group  recommended  that  the  issue  advertisements  made  by 

insurance  companies  being  statutory  advertisements,  may  be  as  per  the  provisions  of 

SEBI (ICDR) Regulations only. 

5.2. Objects  of  issue:  The  IRDA  representative  suggested  that  insurance  companies 

should be allowed to raise money only for the following objects: 

a.  To augment  the solvency requirement  

b.  For general corporate purposes   

c.  For any other purpose which has a specific approval of IRDA  

The  sub-group  noted  that  SEBI  (ICDR)  Regulations  does  not  have  any  specific 

restriction  on  nature  of  objects  for  which  a  company  can  raise  money  from  the 

public.  Hence, the  sub-group recommends that  SEBI  (ICDR)  Regulations  need not 

Page | 10 
 

be  amended  in  this  regard.  However,  IRDA  may,  if  it  considers  necessary  issue 

guidelines to the insurance companies in this regard. 

5.3. Issuance  of  partly-paid  shares:  The  IRDA  representative  stated  that  partly-paid 

shares should not be allowed as it may inflate the capital.  

Sub-group  noted  that  the  Companies  Act,  1956  permits  issuance  of  partly  paid  up 

shares  by  companies.  Hence,  placing  such  restriction  through  subordinate  legislation 

may  not  be  appropriate  and  may  not  also  be  legally  tenable.  Therefore  sub-group 

recommended that restrictions, if considered necessary, can be put by IRDA under its 

regulatory powers.  

5.4. Definition  of  Promoters:  IRDA  stated  that  as  per  the  existing  provisions,  all  the 

shareholders  of  insurance  companies  are  treated  as  promoters  and  employees  who 

have  been  issued  shares  under  ESOP  scheme  are  excluded.  Further,  any  transfer  of 

shares of more than one percent by the pre-IPO shareholders requires prior approval 

of  IRDA.  Therefore,  IRDA  suggested  that  the  definition  of  ‘Promoter’  under  SEBI 

(ICDR) Regulations may be amended as follows: 

“Promoters  mean  the  shareholders  of  the  company  at  the  date  of  fi ling  of  the 

application  for  IPO  with  IRDA/  SEBI.  However,  employees  /  officers  who  have 

been issued shares under ESOP scheme should be excluded“  

The  sub-group  recommends  that  the  existing  definition  of  promoters  as  per  the 

SEBI (ICDR) Regulations should be applicable to the insurance companies as well 

and that IRDA may issue separate guidelines to insurance companies in relation to 

pre-IPO  transfer  of  shares,  if  so  considered  necessary.  However,  disclosure 

regarding any such restriction shall be made in the offer document. 

5.5.  Relaxation from eligibility criteria:  The  IRDA  representative  was  of  the  view  that 

insurance companies may find it difficult to comply with the eligibility requirement 

(i.e.  profitability  criteria),  since  gestation  period  of  life  insuran ce  business  is 

comparatively longer and it takes around 6 to 7 years for a life insurer to achieve 

break even. IRDA representative enquired whether such companies can still raise 

capital through fixed price issue.   

Page | 11 
 

The  sub-group  felt  that  there  is  no  need  to  provide  specific  relaxation  from  the 

eligibility  conditions  to  insurance  companies  since  the  companies  which  do  not 

comply  with  the  profitability  criteria  can  still  raise  the  capital  through  book 

building process. 

5.6. Key Management Personnel :  The IRDA representative suggested the inclusion of 

the  following  officers  in  an  insurance  company  in  the  definition  of  key 

management  personnel  :  Chief  Executive,  Chief  Marketing  Officer,  Appointed 

Actuary,  Chief  Investment  Officer,  Chief  of  Internal  Audit  and  Chief   Finance 

Officer.   

In  this  context,  sub-group  noted  that  the  key  management  personnel  generally 

means and includes only employees in management. The sub -group suggested that 

the  provisions  of  extant  SEBI  (ICDR)  Regulations  may  apply  as  it  is  and    that 

IRDA,  if  it  so  considers  necessary,  may  issue  guidelines  to  the  insurance 

companies  specifying  the  inclusion  of  additional  persons  as  key  management 

personnel. 

5.7. Disclosure  with  regard  to  uniform  financial  denomination:  The  IRDA  Accounting 

Regulations  require  that  figures  in  all  financial  statements  should  be  in 

“thousands”.  It  was  brought  to  the  notice  of  IRDA  representative  that  SEBI 

(ICDR)  Regulations  do  not  specify  any  particular  denomination  in  which  the 

financial information shall be disclosed. The clause VIII (G) of Part A of Schedule 

VIII of SEBI (ICDR) Regulations requires the issuer to  use one standard financial 

unit in the offer document.  

The  sub-group  noted  that  insurance  companies  can  easily  comply  with  the 

requirement  of  IRDA on  denomination without  any  conflict with  the provisions  of 

SEBI (ICDR) Regulations and hence suggested no change. 

 

Page | 12 
 

***** 
 

 

Annexure  I:    INDUSTRY  SPECIFIC  RISK  FACTORS  FOR  INSURANCE  SECTOR  (LIFE  and  NON-
LIFE) 

General 

No insurance company is yet listed in the Indian capital market. Insurance sector has a unique operation and 
it  presents  various  types  of  unique  risks.  Investors  should  read  the  section  on  “Insurance  Industry”  to 
acquaint  themselves  with  the  key  features  of  this  sector.  In  addition,  investors  should  consider  the  risks 
associated with the industry in which the Company operates as well as those relating specifically to it. 

Interest Rate Risk 

Changes in interest rates may materially and adversely affect our profitability. The profitability of some of the 
products  and  investment  returns  of  insurance  companies  are  highly  sensitive  to  interest  rate  fluctuations,  and 
changes in interest rates could adversely affect our investment returns and results of operations. In periods of rising 
interest rates, while the increased investment yield will increase the returns on newly added assets in our investment 
portfolios, surrenders and withdrawals of existing insurance policies may also increase as policyholders seek to buy 
products with perceived higher returns. These surrenders and withdrawals may result in cash payments requiring the 
sale  of  invested  assets  at  a  time  when  the  prices  of  those  assets  are  adversely  affected  by  the  increase  in  market 
interest rates, potentially resulting in realized investment losses. These cash payments to policyholders would result 
in a decrease in total invested assets and a potential decrease in net income. Moreover, a rise in interest rates would 
adversely affect our shareholders’ equity in the immediate fiscal year due to a decrease in the fair value of our fixed 
income investments. Conversely, a decline in interest rates could result in reduced investment returns on our newly 
added assets and have an adverse impact on our profitability. During periods of declining interest rates, our average 
investment  yield  will  decline  as  our  maturing  investments,  as  well  as  bonds  that  are  redeemed  or  prepaid  to  take 
advantage  of  the  lower  interest  rate  environment,  are  replaced  with  new  investments  carrying  lower  yields,  which 
would adversely affect our profitability. In addition, the liabilities associated with our life insurance policies tend to 
have  a  longer  duration  than  our  investment  assets,  which  may  result  in  the  re-investment  returns  of  our  maturing 
investments being lower than the average guaranteed pricing rate  for our insurance policies in a declining interest 
rate environment.  

Maturity Risk 

Due to the limited availability of long-term fixed income securities in the Indian capital market and the legal 
and  regulatory  restrictions  on  the  types  of  investments  we  may  make,  we  are  unable  to  match  closely  the 
duration of our assets and liabilities, which increases our exposure to interest rate risk. Restrictions under the 
IRDA  regulations  on  the  asset  classes  in  which  we  may  invest,  as  well  as  the  limited  availability  in  the  Indian 
market  of  long  duration  investment  assets  capable  of  matching  the  duration  of  our  liabilities,  can  result  in  the 
duration  of  our  assets  being  shorter  than  that  of  our  liabilities,  in  particular,  our  liabilities  in  life  insurance 
operations.  If  we  are  unable  to  match  closely  the  duration  of  our  assets  and  liabilities,  we  will  continue  to  be 
exposed  to  risks  related  to  interest  rate  changes,  which  would  materially  and  adversely  affect  our  results  of 
operations and financial condition. 

Liquidity Risk 

Differences in future actual claims results from the assumptions used in pricing and establishing reserves for 
our  insurance  and  annuity  products  may  materially  and  adversely  affect  our  earnings.  Our  earnings  depend 
significantly upon the extent to which our actual claims results are consistent with the assumptions used in setting 
the prices  for our products and establishing the liabilities in our  financial statements  for our obligations  for future 
policy benefits and claims. Our assumptions include those for investment returns, mortality, morbidity, expenses and 
persistency, as well as macro-economic factors such as inflation. To the extent that trends in actual claims results are 
less favorable than our underlying assumptions used in establishing these liabilities, and these trends are expected to 
continue  in  the  future,  we  could  be  required  to  increase  our  liabilities.  Any  such  increase  could  have  a  material 
adverse  effect  on  our  profitability  and,  if  significant,  our  financial  condition.  Any  material  impairment  in  our 
solvency level could change our customers' or our business associates' perception of our financial health, which in 
turn could adversely affect our sales, earnings and operations. 

Page | 13 
 

Concentrated  surrenders  may  materially  and  adversely  affect  our  cash  flows,  results  of  operations  and 
financial condition.  Under normal circumstances, it  is  generally possible  for insurance  companies to estimate the 
overall amount of surrenders in a given period. However, the occurrence of emergency events that have  significant 
impact,  such  as  sharp  declines  in  customer  income  due  to  a  severe  deterioration  in  economic  conditions,  radical 
changes in relevant government policies, loss of customer confidence in the insurance industry due to the weakening 
of the financial strength of one or more insurance companies, or the severe weakening of our financial strength, may 
trigger massive surrenders of insurance policies. If this were to occur, we would have to dispose of our investment 
assets,  possibly  at  unfavorable  prices,  in  order  to  make  the  significant  amount  of  surrender  payments.  This  could 
materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. 

Investments Risk 

We may incur significant losses on our investments, which may cause our investment income to decrease, and 
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  We primarily invest 
in  fixed  income  products  such  as  term  deposits,  government  bonds,  subordinated  bonds  issued  by  financial 
institutions,  corporate  bonds  and  equity.  Our  investment  returns,  and  thus  our  profitability,  may  be  adversely 
affected  from  time  to  time  by  conditions  affecting  our  specific  investments  and,  more  generally,  by  market 
fluctuations as well as general economic, market and political conditions. In particular, our ability to make a profit 
on  our  insurance  products  depends  in  part  on  the  returns  on  investments  supporting  our  obligations  under  these 
products,  and  the  value  of  specific  investments  may  fluctuate  substantially.  Future  movements  in  market  interest 
rates,  unfavorable  conditions  in  the  Indian  capital  market  or  other  factors  may  cause  our  investment  income  to 
decrease significantly, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Catastrophic Losses Risk 

Catastrophic losses could materially reduce our profitability or cash flow.  Our insurance operations expose us 
to  claims  arising  out  of  catastrophes.  Earthquakes,  typhoons,  floods,  wind,  fires,  explosions,  industrial  accidents, 
epidemics,  terrorist  attacks,  and  other  events  may  cause  catastrophes,  and  the  occurrence  and  severity  of 
catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. It is possible that both the frequency and severity of natural disasters may 
increase in the future.  We establish reserves only after an assessment of potential losses relating to catastrophes that 
have taken place. However, we cannot assure you that such reserves will be sufficient to pay for all related claims. 
Although we carry some reinsurance to reduce our catastrophe loss exposures, due to limitations in the underwriting 
capacity  and  terms  and  conditions  of  the  reinsurance  market  as  well  as  difficulties  in  assessing  our  exposures  to 
catastrophes, this reinsurance may not be sufficient to protect us adequately against losses. As a result, one or more 
catastrophic events could materially reduce our profits and cash flows and harm our financial condition. 

Reinsurance Risk 

If we are not able to obtain reinsurance on a timely basis or at all, we may be required to bear increased risks 
or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. Our ability to obtain reinsurance on a timely basis and at a 
reasonable cost is subject to a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions that are beyond our control. 
The  availability  and  cost  of  reinsurance  may  affect  the  volume  of  our  business  as  well  as  our  profitability.  In 
particular, we may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance coverage or to obtain other reinsurance coverage in 
adequate  amounts  and  at  favorable  rates.  If  we  are  unable  to  renew  our  expiring  coverage  or  to  obtain  new 
reinsurance coverage, either our net risk exposure would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net 
risk exposures, our overall underwriting capacity and the amount of risk we are able to underwrite would decrease. 
To the extent we are not able to obtain reinsurance on a timely basis and at a reasonable cost, or at all, our business, 
financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 

A default by one or more of our reinsurers could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and 
results of operations. Like other major insurance companies in the world, we transfer some of the risk we assume 
under the insurance policies we underwrite to reinsurance companies in exchange for a portion of the premiums we 
receive in connection with the underwriting of these policies. Although reinsurance makes the reinsurer liable to us 
for the risk transferred, it does not discharge our liability to our policyholders. As a result, we are exposed to credit 
risk  with respect to reinsurers in all lines of our insurance  business. In particular, a default by one or  more of our 
reinsurers under our existing reinsurance arrangements would increase our financial losses arising out of a risk we 
have insured, which would reduce our profitability and may adversely affect our liquidity position. In the event of a 

Page | 14 
 

catastrophic  loss  that  affects  a  significant  number  of  Indian  insurers,  the  reinsurers  may  not  b  able  to  pay  us  on  a 
timely basis, or at all.  

Embedded Value Risk 

The embedded value information we present in this prospectus is based on several assumptions and may vary 
significantly as those assumptions are changed. In order to provide investors with an additional tool to understand 
our economic value and business results, we have disclosed information regarding our embedded value, as discussed 
in  the  section  entitled,  "Embedded  Value".  These  measures  are  based  on  a  discounted  cash  flow  valuation 
determined using commonly applied actuarial methodologies. Standards with respect to the calculation of embedded 
value are still evolving, however, and there is no single adopted standard for the form, determination or presentation 
of  the  embedded  value  of  an  insurance  company.  Moreover,  because  of  the  technical  complexity  involved  in 
embedded  value  calculations  and  the  fact  that  embedded  value  estimates  vary  materially  as  key  assumptions  are 
changed, you should read the discussion under the section entitled "Embedded Value". You should use special care 
when interpreting embedded value results and should not place undue reliance on them.  

Regulatory Risks 

Regulations  may  restrict  our  ability  to  operate.  The  insurance  industry  is  subject  to  extensive  regulation  by 
IRDA.  IRDA  has  broad  administrative  powers  to  regulate  many  aspects  of  the  insurance  business,  which  include 
premium  rates,  marketing  practices,  advertising,  policy  forms  and  capital  adequacy.  IRDA  is  concerned  primarily 
with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. Insurance laws and regulations impose restrictions on 
the amount and type of investments, prescribe solvency standards that must be met and maintained and require the 
maintenance  of  reserves.  Premium  rate  regulation  is  common  across  all  of  our  lines  of  business  and  may  make  it 
difficult  for  us  to  increase  premiums  to  adequately  reflect  the  cost  of  providing  insurance  coverage  to  our 
policyholders.  In  our  underwriting,  we  rely  heavily  upon  information  gathered  from  third  parties  such  as  credit 
report agencies and other data aggregators. The use of this information is also highly regulated and any changes to 
the current regulatory structure could materially affect how we underwrite and price premiums. 

Our  business  is  highly  regulated  and  we  may  be  materially  and  adversely  affected  by  future  regulatory 
changes.  Our life insurance and general insurance businesses are regulated primarily by IRDA and we are subject 
to  laws  regulating  all  aspects  of  our  insurance  business.  In  addition,  our  securities  business  is  regulated  by  SEBI. 
Compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations may restrict our business activities. Furthermore, these laws, 
rules and regulations may change from time to time and  we cannot assure you that future legislative or regulatory 
changes, including deregulation, would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and 
results of operations. We cannot predict at this time the effect of potential regulatory changes on our business and 
profitability.  Moreover,  failure  to  comply  with  any  of  the  numerous  laws,  rules  and  regulations  to  which  we  are 
subject  could  result  in  fines,  suspension  or,  in  extreme  cases,  business  license  revocation,  which  could  materially 
and  adversely  affect  us.  In  particular,  future  laws,  rules  and  regulations,  or  the  interpretation  of  existing  or  future 
laws,  rules  and  regulations,  may  have  a  material  adverse  affect  on  our  business,  financial  condition  and  results  of 
operations. 

The  Indian  insurance  regulatory  regime  is  undergoing  significant  change  as  it  moves  toward  a  more  transparent 
regulatory  process.  Some  of  these  changes  may  result  in  additional  costs  or  restrictions  on  our  activities.  In 
particular, some of the changes may require us to take additional steps to comply with new rules and regulations on 
a timely basis. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve full compliance with any such new rules and 
regulations  within  any  prescribed  timeframe,  and  any  such  compliance  may  result  in  our  incurring  increased 
compliance  and  other  costs.  Moreover,  because  the  terms  of  our  products  are  subject  to  regulations,  changes  in 
regulations may affect our profitability on the policies and contracts we issue.  

Regulatory  investigations  and  the  resulting  sanctions  or  penalties  may  adversely  affect  our  reputation, 
business, results of operations and financial condition. We may also be subject to regulatory actions from time to 
time.  A substantial legal liability or a  significant regulatory action could  have an adverse effect on  us or cause  us 
reputational  harm,  which  in  turn  could  harm  our  business  prospects.  We  are  subject  to  periodic  examinations  by 
IRDA, which may impose sanctions, fines and other penalties on us.  If IRDA, in connection with their future audits 
or examinations, requires us to take corrective measures or impose administrative penalties on us or if as a result we 

Page | 15 
 

become the target of negative publicity, our corporate image and reputation and the credibility of our management 
may be materially and adversely affected. 

New accounting pronouncements may significantly affect our financial statements for the current and future 
years,  and  may  materially  and  adversely  affect  our  reported  net  profits  and  shareholders’  equity,  among 
other things. 

Solvency Risks 

Our ability to comply with minimum solvency requirements stipulated by IRDA is affected by a number of 
factors, and our compliance may force us to raise additional capital, which could be dilutive to you, or could 
reduce our growth. We are required by IRDA regulations to maintain our solvency at a level in excess of minimum 
solvency  levels.  Our  minimum  solvency  is  affected  primarily  by  the  policy  reserves  we  are  required  to  maintain 
which, in turn, are affected by the volume of insurance policies we sell and by regulations on the determination of 
statutory  reserves.  Our  solvency  is  also  affected  by  a  number  of  other  factors,  including  the  profit  margin  of  our 
products,  returns  on  our  investments,  underwriting  and  acquisition  costs,  and  policyholder  and  shareholder 
dividends. If we continue to grow rapidly in the future, or if the required solvency level is increased in the future, we 
may need to raise additional capital to meet our solvency requirement, which would be dilutive to you. If we are not 
able to raise additional capital, we may be forced to reduce the growth of our business. 

Insurance Risk 

Impact of Lapse Rates, Expense Level, mortality / Morbidity Rates 

 

Legal Risk 

We may suffer losses from unfavorable outcomes from litigation and other legal proceedings. Legal actions are 
inherent  in  our  businesses  and  operations.  We  are  subject  to  litigation  and  other  legal  proceedings  as  part  of  the 
claims process, the outcomes of which are uncertain. We maintain reserves for these legal proceedings as part of our 
reserves. We also maintain separate reserves for legal proceedings that are not related to the claims process. In the 
event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more legal matters, our ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts we 
have currently reserved for and such additional amounts may be material to our results of operations and financial 
condition.  

As  industry  practices  and  legal,  judicial,  social  and  other  conditions  change,  unexpected  and  unintended  issues 
related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our financial condition and results of 
operations  by  either  extending  coverage  beyond  our  underwriting  intent  or  by  increasing  the  number  and  size  of 
claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance 
contracts that are affected by the changes. 

Risk Management Risk 

Our  risk  management  and  internal  reporting  systems,  policies  and  procedures  may  leave  us  exposed  to 
unidentified  or  unanticipated  risks,  which  could  materially  and  adversely  affect  our  businesses  or  result  in 
losses. Our policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage risks may not be fully effective. Many of our 
methods of managing risk and exposures are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior or statistics 
based  on  historical  models.  As  a  result,  these  methods  may  not  predict  future  exposures,  which  could  be 
significantly  greater  than  what  the  historical  measures  indicate.  Other  risk  management  methods  depend  upon  the 
evaluation  of  information  regarding  markets,  customers  or  other  matters  that  is  publicly  available  or  otherwise 
accessible  to  us,  which  may  not  always  be  accurate,  complete,  up-to-date  or  properly  evaluated.  In  addition,  a 
significant portion of business information needs to be centralized from our  many branch offices. Management of 
operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and 
verify  a  large  number  of  transactions  and  events,  and  these  policies  and  procedures  may  not  be  fully  effective. 
Failure or the ineffectiveness of these systems could materially and adversely affect our business or result in losses.  

Page | 16 
 

We are likely to offer a broader and more diverse range of insurance and investment products in the  future as  the 
insurance  market  in  India  continues  to  develop.  At  the  same  time,  we  anticipate  that  the  relaxing  of  regulatory 
restraints will result in our being able to invest in a significantly broader range of asset classes. The combination of 
these  factors  will  require  us  to  continue  to  enhance  our  risk  management  capabilities  and  is  likely  to  increase  the 
importance of our risk management policies and procedures to our results of operations and financial condition. If 
we  fail  to  adapt  our  risk  management  policies  and  procedures  to  our  changing  business,  our  business,  results  of 
operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Catastrophes could materially reduce 
our earnings and cash flow. 

We  may  experience  failures  in  our  information  technology  system,  which  could  materially  and  adversely 
affect  our  business,  results  of  operations  and  financial  condition.  We  depend  heavily  on  our  information 
technology system to record and process our operational and financial data and to provide reliable services. We may 
be subject to severe failures in our information technology system arising from natural disasters or failures of public 
infrastructure,  our  information  technology  infrastructure  or  our  applications  software  systems  that  are  wholly  or 
partially beyond our control. Although we back up our business data daily and have an emergency disaster recovery 
center  located  at  a  site  different  from  our  production  data  center,  any  material  disruption  to  the  operation  of  our 
information  technology  system  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  our  business.  Our  failure  to  address  these 
problems  could  result  in  our  inability  to  perform,  or  prolonged  delays  in  performing,  critical  business  operational 
functions,  the  loss  of  key  business  data,  or  our  failure  to  comply  with  regulatory  requirements,  which  could 
materially and adversely affect our business operations, customer service and risk management, among others. This 
could in turn materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition 

Competition Risk 

Competition in the Indian insurance industry is increasing and our business and prospects will be harmed if 
we are not able to compete effectively as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and 
results  of  operations  by,  among  other  things:  reducing  our  market  share  in  our  principal  lines  of  business; 
decreasing  our  margins  and  spreads;  reducing  the  growth  of  our  customer  base;  increasing  our  policy 
acquisition  costs;  increasing  our  operating  expenses,  such  as  sales  and  marketing  expenses;  and  increased 
turnover of  management  and sales  personnel.  Some of our competitors  may have advantages over  us in one or 
more  areas,  such  as  financial  strength,  management  capabilities,  resources,  operating  experience,  market  share, 
distribution channels and capabilities in pricing, underwriting and claims settlement. In addition, we face potential 
competition from commercial banks, some of which invest in, or form alliances with, existing insurance companies 
to offer insurance products and services that compete against those offered by us. These commercial banks may also 
establish subsidiaries of their own to engage in insurance business directly. Such potential competitors may further 
increase the competitive pressures we experience.  

Competition from foreign-invested life insurance companies is likely to increase in the future, as restrictions 
on  their  operations  in  India  are  relaxed.  Moreover,  foreign-invested  life  insurance  companies  may  have 
access to greater financial, technological or other resources than we do.  

We are likely to face increasing competition from companies offering products that compete with our own. In 
addition  to  competition  from  insurance  companies,  we  face  competition  from  other  companies  that  may  offer 
products  that  compete  with  our  own,  including  real  estate  companies,  mutual  fund  companies  and  other  financial 
services providers.  

Market Growth Risk 

The rate of growth of the Indian insurance market may not be as high or as sustainable as we anticipate.  

The rate of growth of the Indian insurance market may not be as high or as sustainable as we anticipate. This may be 
the  case  even  though  we  expect  the  insurance  market  in  India  to  expand  and  the  penetration  rate  to  rise  with  the 
growth of the Indian economy and household wealth, continued social welfare reform, demographic changes and the 
opening  of  the  Indian  insurance  market  to  foreign  participants.  The  impact  on  the  Indian  insurance  industry  of 
certain trends and events, such as the pace of economic growth in India and the ongoing reform of the social welfare 
system is unpredictable and consequently, the growth and development of the Indian insurance market is subject to a 
number of uncertainties that are beyond our control. 

Page | 17 
 

An economic slowdown in the country, such as the one experienced following the recent global financial crisis, 
may  reduce  the  demand  for  our  products  and  services  and  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  our  results  of 
operations,  financial  condition  and  profitability.  In  an  economic  downturn  characterized  by  higher 
unemployment,  lower  family  income,  lower  corporate  earnings,  lower  business  investment  and  lower  consumer 
spending,  the  demand  for  our  insurance  products  and  services  could  be  adversely  affected.  In  addition,  we  may 
experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. Our policyholders may also choose 
to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether.If the Indian economy continues 
to experience a slower growth or a significant downturn, our results of operations and financial condition would be 
materially and adversely affected. 

Agents’ Risk 

All of our insurance agents are required to obtain a qualification certificate from IRDA; any changes in the 
regulatory policies with regard to the agents may materially and adversely affect our business. Moreover, our 
growth is dependent on our ability to attract and retain productive agents. A substantial portion of our business 
is conducted through agents. Competition for agents from insurance companies and other business institutions may 
force us to increase the compensation of our agents and sales representatives, which would increase operating costs 
and reduce our profitability.  

If we are unable to develop other distribution channels for our products, our growth may be materially and 
adversely  affected.  Banks  and  post  offices  are  rapidly  emerging  as  some  of  the  fastest  growing  distribution 
channels in India. We do not have exclusive arrangements with any of the banks and post offices through which we 
sell  insurance  and  annuity  products,  and  thus  our  sales  may  be  materially  and  adversely  affected  if  one  or  more 
banks or post offices choose to favor our competitors' products over our own.  

Agent  misconduct  is  difficult  to  detect  and  deter  and  could  harm  our  reputation  or  lead  to  regulatory  sanctions  or 
litigation costs. Agent misconduct could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions, litigation or serious 
reputational  or  financial  harm.  Misconduct  could  include  engaging  in  misrepresentation  or  fraudulent  activities 
when marketing or selling insurance policies or annuity contracts to customers; hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful 
activities, resulting in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses; or otherwise not complying with laws or our control 
policies or procedures. We cannot always deter agent misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect 
these  activities  may  not  be  effective  in  all  cases.  We  cannot  assure  you  that  agent  misconduct  will  not  lead  to  a 
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 

Other Risks 

–  We depend on select actuarial personnel and could be materially and adversely affected by the loss of their 

services. 

–  A  perceived  reduction  in  our  financial  strength  could  increase  policy  surrenders  and  withdrawals  and 

damage our relationship with our creditors, our counterparties and the distributors of our products. 

–  Prospective investors should acquaint themselves with the Financial Statements, drawn specifically for the 

insurance companies. 

–  Contingent  liabilities  could  adversely  affect  the  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations  of  the 

– 

insurance company.  
Investment  in  the  relatives/associates  of  the  Promoters/  Directors  of  the  Insurance  Company  can  be 
detrimental to the interests of our company. 

–  Risk with reference to concentration by region/type of policies of the Insurance Company  
– 
–  We will incur increased costs as a result of being a listed company. 

Insurance Companies are subject to restrictions on payments of dividends 

 

The insurance industry is cyclical, which may impact our results.  The insurance industry is cyclical. Although 
no two cycles are the same, insurance industry cycles have typically lasted for periods ranging from two to six years. 
The  segments  of  the  insurance  markets  in  which  we  operate  tend  not  to  be  correlated  to  each  other,  with  each 
segment  having  its  own  cyclicality.  Periods  of  intense  price  competition  due  to  excessive  underwriting  capacity, 
periods  when  shortages  of  underwriting  capacity  permit  more  favorable  rate  levels,  consequent  fluctuations  in 
underwriting  results  and  the  occurrence  of  other  losses  characterize  the  conditions  in  these  markets.  Historically, 

Page | 18 
 

insurers  have experienced significant  fluctuations in operating results due to volatile and sometimes  unpredictable 
developments,  many  of  which  are  beyond  the  direct  control  of  the  insurer,  including  competition,  frequency  of 
occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions and other factors. This 
may  cause  a  decline  in  revenue  at  times  in  the  cycle  if  we  choose  not  to  reduce  our  product  prices  in  order  to 
maintain  our  market  position,  because  of  the  adverse  effect  on  profitability  of  such  a  price  reduction.  We  can  be 
expected therefore to experience the effects of such cyclicality and changes in customer expectations of appropriate 
premium  levels,  the  frequency  or  severity  of  claims  or  other  loss  events  or  other  factors  affecting  the  insurance 
industry that generally could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

The  insurance  and  related  businesses  in  which  we  operate  may  be  subject  to  periodic  negative  publicity, 
which  may  negatively  impact  our  financial  results.  The  nature  of  the  market  for  the  insurance  and  related 
products  and  services  we  provide  is  that  we  interface  with  and  distribute  our  products  and  services  ultimately  to 
individual  consumers.  There  may  be  a  perception  that  these  purchasers  may  be  unsophisticated  and  in  need  of 
consumer protection. Accordingly, from time to time, consumer advocate groups or the media may focus attention 
on  our  products  and  services,  thereby  subjecting  our  industries  to  periodic  negative  publicity.  We  may  also  be 
negatively impacted if another company in one of our industries engages in practices resulting in increased public 
attention to our businesses. Negative publicity may result in increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry 
practices as well as increased litigation, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect 
our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, requiring us to change our products or 
services or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. 

The impact of investigations of possible anti-competitive practices by the company cannot be predicted and 
may have a  material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and financial  strength 
ratings. 

We  may  be  exposed  to  environmental  liability  from  our  commercial  mortgage  loan  and  real  estate 
investments. As a commercial mortgage lender, we customarily conduct environmental assessments prior to making 
commercial  mortgage  loans  secured  by  real  estate  and  before  taking  title  through  foreclosure  to  real  estate 
collateralizing  delinquent  commercial  mortgage  loans  held  by  us.  Based  on  our  environmental  assessments,  we 
believe that any compliance costs associated with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of affected 
properties would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, we 
cannot provide assurance that material compliance costs will not be incurred by us. 

The  effects  of  emerging  claims  and  coverage  issues  on  our  business  are  uncertain.  As  industry  practices  and 
legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage 
may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting 
intent  or  by  increasing  the  number  or  size  of  claims.  In  some  instances,  these  changes  may  not  become  apparent 
until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, 
the full extent of liability under our insurance and reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a 
contract is issued. Recent example of emerging claims and coverage issues include: 

 

 

larger  settlements  and  jury  awards  in  cases  involving  professionals  and  corporate  directors  and  officers 
covered by professional liability and directors and officers liability insurance and 
a  growing  trend  of  plaintiffs  targeting  property  and  casualty  insurers  in  class  action  litigation  related  to 
claims handling, insurance sales practices and other practices related to the conduct of our business. 

We may be unable to accurately predict benefits, claims and other costs or to manage such costs through our 
loss limitation methods, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial 
condition. Our profitability depends in large part on accurately predicting benefits, claims and other costs, including 
medical  and  dental  costs,  and  predictions  regarding  the  frequency  and  magnitude  of  claims  on  our  disability  and 
property coverage. It also depends on our ability to manage future benefit and other costs through product design, 
underwriting  criteria,  utilization  review  or  claims  management  and,  in  health  and  dental  insurance,  negotiation  of 
favorable provider contracts. Utilization review is a review process designed to control and limit medical expenses, 
which includes, among other things, requiring certification for admission to a health care facility and cost-effective 
ways of  handling patients  with catastrophic  illnesses. Claims  management entails the use of a  variety of  means to 
mitigate  the  extent  of  losses  incurred  by  insureds  and  the  corresponding  benefit  cost,  which  includes  efforts  to 
improve the quality of medical care provided to insureds and to assist them with vocational services. The aging of 

Page | 19 
 

the population and other demographic characteristics and advances in medical technology continue to contribute to 
rising  health  care  costs.  Our  ability  to  predict  and  manage  costs  and  claims,  as  well  as  our  business,  results  of 
operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by: 

changes in health and dental care practices; 
inflation; 

(cid:173) 
(cid:173) 
(cid:173)  new technologies; 
(cid:173) 
(cid:173) 
(cid:173) 
(cid:173) 
(cid:173) 
(cid:173)  numerous other factors affecting the cost of health and dental care and the frequency and severity of 

the cost of prescription drugs; 
clusters of high cost cases; 
changes in the regulatory environment; 
economic factors; 
the occurrence of catastrophes; and 

claims in all our business segments. 

The  judicial  and  regulatory  environments,  changes  in  the  composition  of  the  kinds  of  work  available  in  the 
economy, market conditions and numerous other factors may also materially adversely affect our ability to manage 
claim  costs.  As  a  result  of  one  or  more  of  these  factors  or  other  factors,  claims  could  substantially  exceed  our 
expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

As  industry  practices  and  legal,  judicial,  social  and  other  environmental  conditions  change,  unexpected  and 
unintended issues relating  to claims and  coverage  may emerge. These issues could  materially adversely affect our 
results  of  operations  and  financial  condition  by  either  extending  coverage  beyond  our  underwriting  intent  or  by 
increasing the  number or size of claims or both. We  may  be limited  in our ability  to respond to such changes, by 
insurance regulations, existing contract terms, contract filing requirements, market conditions or other factors. 

Page | 20 
 

Annexure II: Overview of Insurance Industry 

1.  Introduction 

 

2.  Background- A brief history about Insurance Industry  

2.1.  Pre-Nationalization 

2.2.  Nationalization of the Sector 

2.3.  Insurance Reforms 

2.4.  Interim Insurance Regulatory Authority 

2.5.  Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority  

2.6.  Approach to Reforms 

 

3.  Global Insurance Environment- A brief on global and domestic scenario covering Insurance Penetration, 

Density, growth of Industry  etc 

3.1.  Global Insurance Environment  

3.2.  Domestic Market Overview  

 

4.  Industry Outlook 

4.1.  Life Insurance -Total Premium Underwritten 

4.1.1. Market Share (% share)   

4.1.2. Growth of Business 

4.2.  Non Life insurer Market Share (% share)  

4.2.1. Market Share (% share)  

4.2.2. Growth of Business 

 

5.  Analysis of Trends 

5.1.  Life Insurance 

5.1.1. Enlarged Coverage 

5.1.2. Introduction of New Products 

5.2.  General Insurance 

5.2.1. Tariff and non-tariff Products 

5.2.2. Enlarged Coverage 

5.2.3. Introduction of New Products 

5.2.4. Reinsurance Supported Products 

5.3.  Health Insurance 

5.3.1. Enlarged Coverage 

5.3.2. Introduction of New Products 

 

Page | 21 
 

5.4.  Reinsurance Business  

 

6.  Investment of Funds by the Insurance Industry 

6.1.  Investment Pattern 

 

7.  FDI in Insurance Sector 

 

8.  Intermediaries 

8.1.  Commission Structure 

8.1.1. Life Insurance Industry 

8.1.2. Non Life Insurers 

 

9.  Changes  in Insurance Legislation 

9.1.  Changes in Insurance Legislation 

9.2.  Regulatory Issues and Changes 

9.3.  Consumer Related Changes 

9.4.  Removal of Redundant Clauses 

9.5.  Enhancement of Enforcement Powers and Levy of Penalties 

 

10.  Corporate Governance Guidelines for Insurance Companies  

 

11.  Conclusion 

 

Page | 22 
 

Annexure III: Comparison table on disclosures made in offer documents of life insurance companies in other jurisdictions 

 
  

1 

 

Particular  

Cathy 
Taiwan 

Business Description 

FHC, 

China Life 

Ping AN 

Sony Financial 

Delta Lloyd Groep 

IRDA's Observations 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.a 

Gross Premium 

By  business 
line 
(life  V/s  Non-life) 
and by product line 

By 
product 
profitability  (group 
life  vs. 
individual 
life/  Participating 
vs.  traditional  non-
participating/  Singe 
premium  vs  regular 
premium) 

1.b 

Cross selling 

Between  Insurance 
and banking 

Not Available 

By business life (life 
vs 
non-life),  By 
region  (Coastal  vs. 
others),  by  product 
(Life  %  of  regular 
premium/  % 
of 
renewal  premium  / 
Bancassurnace  vs. 
group 
vs. 
individual  life,  non-
life,  auto  vs.  non-
auto 
Between 
non-life 

life  and 

life 

business 

line 
By 
(life, 
non-life  & 
banking)  By  product 
life  vs. 
(individual 
individual 
annuity 
vs.  group  life,  group 
annuity) 

By 

By  business  line  (life  vs. 
non-life) 
region 
(Netherlands,  Belgium)  By 
product  (Individual/  group, 
savings/ pension, traditional 
/ linked) 

Between 
life and bank 

life,  non-

Between  life,  non-life  and 
bank and fund management 

1.c 

Distribution network  Agents 

Branch/ 
Bancassurance 

Agents/ 

Branch/agents/. 
Bancassurance 

Life  planner  sales 
employees 
and 
independent agents 

Different channels utilized 

1.d 

Persistency 

13-month 
persistency 

Not Available 

13-month  and  25-
month persistency 

12-months 
persistency 

Not available 

various 

business 

Covering 
lines 
(including  the  renewal  premiums  in 
case  of  life  companies).                  Also 
disclosre  on  buisness  underwritten  on 
geography wise basis 

Between  insurance  &  banking  (details 
of  referrals  and  bancassurance  to  be 
provided) 

corporate 

Agents, 
agents, 
bancassurance,  brokers  and  Referrals. 
The  same  will  be  specified  by  IRDA  as 
an additional disclosure. 

for 

life 

Applicable  only 
insurance 
business.  Already  covered  in  the  re-
statement  of  the  financial  statement. 
However,  if  require,  the  same  may  be 
repeated  here  giving  13months,  25th 
month,  37months,  49th  months  and 
61th months persistency ratio 

 

2 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Income Statement 

Page | 23 
 

  

Particular  

2.a 

Renewals 

Cathy 
Taiwan 
Not available 

FHC, 

China Life 

Ping AN 

Sony Financial 

Delta Lloyd Groep 

IRDA's Observations 

Not available 

Mentioned 

Mentioned 

Mentioned (in MCEV) 

2.b 

Agent productivity 

Not available 

Briefly discussed 

2.c 

Margin  per  product 
line 

By 
business line 

different 

Not available 

new 

Annualized  FYP  per 
agent, 
life 
policies  per  agent 
per month 
By  different  product 
(bancassurance  vs 
group 
vs 
individual) 

life 

of 

the 
sales 
and 

Mentions  only 
number 
employees 
agents 
By  different  product 
lines  and  different 
business divisions 

Mentions number of agents 

different 

By 
divisions 

business 

2.d 

Operating  expense 
ratio 

ratio  given  for  life 
insurance  

Only 
disclosed in P&L 

expenses 

Expenses  disclosed 
in detail 

Only 
disclosed in P&L 

expenses 

Mentioned  only  for  general 
insurance  divisions,  for  life 
insurance expenses in P&L 

Already 
expense ratio 

covered 

in  management 

3 

Balance Sheet  

3.a 

Investment Yield 

for 
investment 

overall 

Yield  for  each  class 
of investment 

Yield  for  each  class 
of investment 

Yield  for  each  class 
of investments 

for  each  class  of 

Yield 
investments 

Would  be  covered  under  the  Revenue 
Statement - specific for life companies.  

Annualized  FYP  per  agent;  new  life 
policies  per  agent  per  month.  -  case  of 
life companies   

Not  in  vogue  in  India  at  present. 
However,  segment  wise  disclosure  have 
already been  specified  for    revenue a/c. 
In 
companies, 
disclosure  would  be  underwriting 
experience segment wise. 

of  non-life 

case 

the 

in 
the 

financial 
Already  covered 
statement 
continuous 
and 
disclosures-  –  to  be  disclosed  for  the 
shareholders’ 
traditional 
portfolio  and  on  the  ULIPs  in  case  of 
life com. 
Already  covered 
statements to be restated 

financial 

funds; 

in 

the 

Deposit/fixed 
income/ equity/loan 

Deposit 
income/equity/loan 

/fixed 

Deposit/fixed 
income/equity/loan/bonds 

Provides 
rates  directly 
illustrate 
spreads 

interest 
to 
negative 

directly 

interest 
to 
negative 

Provides 
rates 
illustrate 
spreads 

Interest  amount  by  type  of 
liability provided 

there 

In  the  Indian  context,  the  only  form  of 
capital presently permitted is Equity. As 
such, 
the 
notional  cost  of  capital  involved.  For 
the  present,  disclosures  in  this  context 
may not be required.   

is  presently  only 

3.b 

Investment portfolio 

3.c 

cost of liability 

overseas 
short 
security/ 

Loans/ 
investment/ 
term 
bonds etc. 
Not available 

Deposit/fixed 
maturity/ 
loan 

equity/ 

Not available 

4 

Capital and EV (including assumptions) 

Page | 24 
 

  

Particular  

4.a 

Value 
Business 

of 

new 

Cathy 
Taiwan 
Not available 

FHC, 

China Life 

Ping AN 

Sony Financial 

Delta Lloyd Groep 

IRDA's Observations 

with 
analysis 

sensitivity 

With 
analysis 

sensitivity 

with 
analysis 

sensitivity 

with sensitivity analysis 

not  required  to  be  disclosed  as  there  is 
no  uniformity  in  the  approach  to  be 
followed  for  computation  of  Value  of 
New Business. 

4.b 

NBAP 

Not available 

Not available 

New  business  value 
/  first  year  premium 
(No 
assumptions 
mentioned) 

disclosure  of  NBAP 
and 
NBAP  % 
(Assumptions 
mentioned) 

disclosure  of  NBAP  and 
NBAP  % 
(Assumptions 
mentioned) 

-do- 

4.c 

Embedded Value 

Assumptions 
mentioned 
briefly 

are 
very 

Assumptions 
mentioned 
briefly 

are 
very 

Assumptions 
mentioned 
briefly 

are 
very 

Assumptions 
mentioned in detail 

are 

Assumptions  are  mentioned 
in detail 

4.d 

Capitalization 

Mentioned 

Mentioned 

Mentioned 

Mentioned 

Mentioned 

4.e 

Solvency margin 

statutory disclosure 

statutory disclosure 

statutory disclosure 

statutory disclosure 

Regulatory and IFRS basis 

finalisation  of 

The  same  needs 
to  be  disclosed. 
Institute of Actuaries of India is already 
in  process  of 
the 
guidelines on Embedded Value.  
Already  covered  as  a  part  of  financial 
statement. 
Covered  in  the  ratios  prescribed  by  the 
Authority. 

5 

Risk Management 

5.a 

Market risk 

Described  the  risk 
and  explained  the 
way it is managed 

Described  the  risk 
and  explained  the 
way it is managed 

Described  the  risk 
and  explained 
the 
way it is managed 

Described 
and  explained 
way it is managed 

the  risk 
the 

5.b 

Operational risk 

Not available 

Not available 

Types of investment 
and  the  quality  of 
the portfolio 

Mentions 
the 
investments  in  brief 
and the yield 

Mentions 
the 
investments  in  brief 
and the yield 

Types  of  investment  and  the 
quality of the portfolio 

the 
Mentions 
yield 
investments, 
and 
industry 
wise  bifurcation  n 
brief and the yield 

the 

At present covered only in the financial 
statement.  It  is  suggested  that    the 
investments, yield and the industry wise 
bifurcation 
in  brief  may  also  be 
captured. 

Described  the  risk 
and  explained  the 
way it is managed 
Described  the  risk 
and  explained  the 
way it is managed 
Described  the  risk 
and  explained  the 
way it is managed 

Described  the  risk 
and  explained  the 
way it is managed 
Described  the  risk 
and  explained  the 
way it is managed 
Described  the  risk 
and  explained  the 
way it is managed 

Explained  the  risk 
and 
the  measures 
taken to manage it 
Described  the  risk 
and  explained 
the 
way it is managed 
Described  the  risk 
and  explained 
the 
way it is managed 
Described  the  risk 
and  explained 
the 
way it is managed 

the  risk 
the 

the  risk 
the 

Described 
and  explained 
way it is managed 
Described 
and  explained 
way it is managed 
Described 
and  explained 
way it is managed 
Described 
and  explained 
way it is managed 

the  risk 
the 

the  risk 
the 

Described 
explained 
managed 

Described 
explained 
managed 
Described 
explained 
managed 
Described 
explained 
managed 
Described 
explained 
managed 

the 
the  way 

risk  and 
is 

it 

the 
the  way 

risk  and 
is 

it 

the 
the  way 

risk  and 
is 

it 

the 
the  way 

risk  and 
is 

it 

the 
the  way 

risk  and 
is 

it 

Covered 

Covered 

Covered 

Covered 

Covered 

5.c 

Credit risk 

5.d 

Liquidity risk 

5.e 

Assets 
Management 

Liability 

6 

Investment 

6.a 

Equity 

Page | 25 
 

  

Particular  

6.b 

Bonds 

FHC, 

Cathy 
Taiwan 
Types of investment 
and  the  quality  of 
the portfolio 

China Life 

Ping AN 

Sony Financial 

Delta Lloyd Groep 

IRDA's Observations 

Mentions 
the 
investments  in  brief 
and the yield on it 

Mentions 
the 
investments  in  brief 
and the yield 

Mentions 
investments in brief 

the 

Types  of  investment  and  the 
quality of the portfolio 

in 

Already  covered 
the  periodical 
disclosures  to  be  made  by  the  insurers. 
However, the same may also be covered 
in the IPO disclosures. 

7 

Reinsurance 

7.a 

No. of reinsurers 

Main 
mentioned 

reinsurers 

Main 
mentioned 

reinsurers 

Not available 

Not available 

Main reinsurers mentioned 

7.b 

Rating of reinsurers  Mentioned 

Not available 

Not available 

Not available 

Not available 

of 

Not available 

Mentioned 

Not available 

Not available 

Briefly mentioned 

  

  

  

  

  

  

rate 

Briefly mentioned 

price 

Not available 

Mentioned in detail  Mentioned 

along 
with  the  impact  of 
the risk 
Mentioned 
along 
with  the  impact  of 
the risk 

Mentioned 
along 
with  the  impact  of 
the risk 

Not availabe 

Not availabe 

Mentioned  along  with  the 
impact of the risk 

Mentioned  along  with  the 
impact of the risk 

Would form part of various risk factors. 

of 

disclosure 

Along  with 
the 
information  as  indicated,  the  overall 
strategy  and  reinsurance  policy  of  the 
insurer  and  the  types  of  reinsurance 
treaties  entered  into would also  need  to 
be indicated.  

Exposure 
reinsurers 
  

Interest 
sensitivity 

Equity 
sensitivity 

7.c 

  

8 

8.a 

9 

  

Management Report on internal control over financial reporting 

Internal 
reporting 

control 

Not available 

Not available 

Not available 

Not available 

10 

Investment 

  

  

  

  

in 

to 
to  Maturity, 
securities 
Non-trading 

Classified 
Held 
Trading 
and 
securities 

Classified  in to  Held 
to 
maturity, 
Financial 
assets 
carried  at  cost  & 
Available for Sale 

Classified in to Held 
for 
trading 
securities,  Held  to 
& 
Maturity 
for  sale 
Available 
and 
Loans  & 
receivables 
originated 
enterprise 

by 

10.a  Classification 

in 

Classified 
to 
Trading  securities, 
Held to Maturity  & 
Available for sale 

Page | 26 
 

Currently  not  available.  
However  to be  submitted by 
2012. 
  

Classified financial assets at 
fair  value  through  profit  or 
loss  (FV)  (further  classified 
into  "held  for  trading"  and 
"other 
trading"), 
available-for-sale  financial 
assets  (AFS),  or  loans  and 
receivables 

than 

As part of MD&A. 

  

Presently,  the  portfolio  is  not  required 
to  be  segregated  into  HTM/HFT/AFS. 
However,  once  the  stipulation  is  in 
place,  insurers  would  need  to  disclose 
the segregation. 

  

Particular  

10.b 

Valuation 

FHC, 

Cathy 
Taiwan 
Trading  securities 
and  Available  for 
sale  are  marked  to 
market  and  Held  to 
Maturity  are  stated 
at amortized cost 

10.c  Unrealized 

gains/ 

losses 

Unrealised  gains/ 
losses  on  Trading 
securities  are  taken 
to current earnings, 
on  Available 
for 
sale  are  taken  to  a 
separate 
component 
shareholder's 
and 
equity 
premiums 
& 
discounts  on  Held 
to  Maturity  are 
amortized  over  the 
period 
of 
investment 

of 

China Life 

Ping AN 

Sony Financial 

Delta Lloyd Groep 

IRDA's Observations 

to  maturity 
Held 
are 
securities 
reported 
at 
amortized  cost  and 
Trading  and  Non-
trading 
securities 
are  reported  at  fair 
value 

to  maturity 
Held 
and  Available 
for 
sale  reported  at  fair 
value  and  Trading 
securities and Loans 
& 
receivables  at 
cost  

Held  to  maturity  are 
reported 
at 
amortized  cost,  Held 
for trading securities 
and  available 
for 
sale  are  stated  at 
fair 
value  with 
unrealized  gains  or 
losses  charged 
to 
income 

reported 

Unrealised 
gains/ 
losses  on  Held  to 
Maturity 
and 
securities 
Trading 
are 
in 
profit 
loss 
account  whereas  as 
that on  Non  trading 
are  routed  through 
investment 
revaluation reserve 

and 

Unrealised  gains  or 
losses  on  securities 
held 
trading 
charged to income 

for 

Unrealised 
gains/ 
losses  on  Held  for 
trading are included 
consolidated 
in 
results, 
for 
Available  for  Sale, 
they  are  recognised 
as 
separate 
component of equity 

a 

As  per  the  present  dispensation,  listed 
equity  is  valued  at  market  price.  Debt 
instruments  are  valued  at  amortized 
cost. The same is already being covered 
in Significant accounting policies.  

Manner  of  arriving  at  the  unrealized 
gains to be indicated. 

to 

FV  and  AFS  are  carried  at 
fair  value.    Changes  in  the 
fair  value  of  "held 
for 
trading"  and  "other  than 
trading" 
investments  are 
charged 
income.  
Changes in the fair value of 
AFS  (except  for  impairment 
losses  and  relevant  foreign 
exchanges gains and losses) 
are  recorded  in  a  specific 
investment valuation reserve 
within  equity,  mortgages 
and loan assets are reported 
at amortized cost. 

Fair  Value  movement  on 
Held  for  trading  and  other 
than  held  for  trading  are 
included in the results, gross 
fair  value  gains/ 
losses 
shown in Equity account 

11 

Others 

11.a  Deferred acquisition 

Amortized 

Amortized 

Amortized 

Not available 

Amortized 

cost 

In  the  Indian  context,  the  acquisition 
costs  are  not  permitted  to  be  deferred. 
Thus, no disclosures required. 

Page | 27 
 

  

Particular  

11.b 

Liability  for  Future 
policy  benefits  and 
Policyholder 
Account Balances 

Cathy 
Taiwan 
Not available 

11.c 

Risk Based Capital 

Calculated  as  per 
the 
regulatory 
guidelines 
prescribed by ROC 

FHC, 

China Life 

Ping AN 

Sony Financial 

Delta Lloyd Groep 

IRDA's Observations 

Calculated  through 
of 
the 
use 
assumptions 
for 
investment  returns, 
mortality, 
morbidity,  expenses 
and  persistency,  as 
well 
certain 
macro-economic 
factors 
inflation 
Calculated  as  per 
the 
regulatory 
guidelines 
prescribed by CIRC 

such 

as 

as 

Briefly mentioned 

Briefly mentioned 

Briefly mentioned 

case  of  non 

Calculated  based  on  various  actuarial 
assumptions  –  in  case  of  life  insurers. 
In 
insurance 
companies,  disclosure  with  respect  to 
reserving 
triangles/claims 
development  would  also  be  required  to 
be made. 

-loss 

life 

Calculated  as  per 
the 
regulatory 
guidelines 
prescribed by CIRC 

margin 
is  mentioned 
the 

Solvency 
ratio 
along 
calculations 

with 

Solvency  margin  ratio 
mentioned for all divisions 

is 

These  prescriptions  are  presently  not 
applicable  to  insurance  companies  in 
India. 

CIRC 

CIRC 

CIRC 

FSA 

Not mentioned 

Already  decided  that  no  monitoring 
agency is required. 

 

11.d  Monitoring 
Mechanism 

 
 
 
 

Page | 28 
 

Annexure IV: Glossary of terms used in Insurance Industry 

 

(A)  LIFE INSURANCE 

 

Glossary- Life 
Annuity 
 

Annual premium equivalent 
(APE) 
Assumptions 
Acquisition costs 
 
Board 
Bonus 
Certainty Equivalent 

Conventional with-profit or 
CWP 
Cost income ratio 
 

Deferred acquisition costs 
(DAC) 
 

Deferred Annuity 

Director 
Discounting 
 

Dividend cover 
 

Earnings before interest 
and tax (EBIT) 
 

EBIT margin 
 

Economic assumptions 

29 
 

A periodic payment made for an agreed period of time (usually up to the death of the 
recipient) in return for a cash sum. The cash sum can be paid as one amount or as a 
series  of  premiums.  If  the  annuity  commences  immediately  after  the  payment  of  the 
sum it is termed an immediate annuity. If it commences at some future date it is termed 
a deferred annuity. 
An industry measure of new business. The total of new annualised regular premiums 
plus 10% of single premiums written during the applicable period. 
Variables applied to data used to project expected outcomes. 
Expenses related to the procurement and processing of new business written including 
a share of overheads. 
The board of Directors of the Company. 
Surplus funds that a life insurance company allocates to its policyholders 
The  approach  adopted  in  calculating  the  value  of  in-force  under  the  MCEV  basis, 
where all cash flows are projected and discounted at risk-free rates 
Traditional  policies  which  participate  in  the  profits  of  the  company-participating 
policies  
The  ratio  of  total  costs  to  total  income  for  the  year  expressed  as  a  percentage.  These 
are  measures  by  reference  to  which  the  development,  performance  or  position  of  the 
business  can  be  measured  effectively.  It  indicates  how  much  of  total  income  is  being 
employed to meet the cost base and measures the strategic driver of cost effectiveness. 
The  method  of  accounting  whereby  acquisition  costs  on  long-term  business  are 
deferred in the balance sheet as an asset and amortised over the life of those contracts. 
This leads to a smoothed recognition of up front expenses instead of the full cost in the 
year of sale. 
Annuities  which  commence  after  a  specified  number  of  years  or  at  a  specified  age 
(usually on retirement), usually continuing through the policyholder’s life. 
A director of the Company 
The  reduction  to  present  value  at  a  given  date  of  a  future  cash  transaction  at  an 
assumed rate, using a discount factor reflecting the time value of money. The choice of 
a  discount  rate  will  usually  greatly  influence  the  value  of  insurance  provisions,  and 
may give indications on the conservatism of provisioning methods. 
This  is  a  measure  of  how  easily  a  company  can  pay  its  dividend  from  profit.  It  is 
calculated as IFRS operating profit after tax and minority interest divided by the total 
dividend for that financial year. The dividend for the financial year is the current year 
interim dividend plus the proposed final dividend.  
EBIT  is  defined  as  earnings  before  interest,  taxation,  foreign  exchange  gains  and 
losses,  profit  on  partial  disposal  of  investment  in  associate,  divergence  on  financial 
guarantee  costs,  movement  on  contract  for  differences  and  restructuring  costs.  This 
KPI  measures  directly  the  underlying  operating  profitability.  is  defined  as  earnings 
before interest, taxation, foreign exchange gains and losses, profit on partial disposal 
of  investment  in  associate,  divergence  on  financial  guarantee  costs,  movement  on 
contract for differences and restructuring costs. This measures directly the underlying 
operating profitability. 
This is an industry measure of performance for investment management companies. It 
is calculated as EBIT is defined as earnings before interest, taxation, foreign exchange 
gains  and  losses,  profit  on  partial  disposal  of  investment  in  associate,  divergence  on 
financial  guarantee  costs,  movement  on  contract  for  differences  and  restructuring 
costs. This KPI measures directly the underlying operating profitability. divided by total 
revenue 
Assumptions in relation to future interest rates, investment returns, inflation and tax. 

 

Embedded Value or EV 

Experience variances 
 

Financial options and 
guarantees 
 

Free surplus 
 
IFRS 
Income Protection 

In-force 
 
Interest margin 
 

Internal rate of return 
(IRR) 

ISA 
Key Performance Indicator 
(KPI) 
Lapsing or Lapse  

Life insurance fund  

Long-term business  

Maintenance expenses 
 

maturing or maturity 

Market Consistent 
Embedded Value (MCEV) 
 

Morbidity Rate 
Mortality 
Net flows 
 

Net worth 

30 
 

These assumptions and variances in relation to these assumptions are treated as non-
operating profits/(losses) under EEV.  
The  Embedded  Value  of  a  life  insurance  business  is  the  sum  of  its  shareholder  net 
assets (including any surplus held in the long term business fund which is attributable 
to  shareholders)  and  the  value  of  its  in-force  business.  The  latter  is  calculated  by 
projecting  the  after  tax  surpluses  distributable  to  shareholders  expected  in  respect  of 
the  in-force  business  and  discounting  them  back  to  the  present  time  at  a  risk  rate  of 
return  
Current period differences between the actual experience incurred over the period and 
the assumptions used in the calculation of the embedded value excluding new business 
non-economic experience variances which are captured in new business contribution.  
Terms  relating  to  covered  business  conferring  potentially  valuable  guarantees 
underlying,  or  options  to  change,  the  level  and  nature  of  policyholder  benefits  and 
exercisable at the discretion  of the policyholder, whose potential value is impacted by 
the behaviour of financial variables.  
The amount of capital and any surplus allocated to, but not required to support, the in-
force business covered by the EEV 
International Financial Reporting Standards  
A long-term business policy which provides cover against loss of income consequential 
upon certain insured events such as accident, sickness or permanent ill health. 
Long-term business  which  has  been  written  before  the  period  end  and  which  has  not 
terminated before the period end. 
Net interest income for the year as a percentage of average total assets during the year 
disclosed in basis points (1/100th of 1%). This is a measure of how much margin the 
Group is making on its banking assets and  measures the driver of income generation 
for this business. 
A measure of rate of returns on an investment and so an indicator of capital efficiency. 
The IRR is equivalent to the discount  rate at  which the present value of the after tax 
cash flows expected to be earned over the lifetime of new business  written is equal to 
the capital invested to support the writing of the business.  
An individual savings account. 
These are measures by reference to which the development, performance or position of 
the business can be measured effectively. 
The cancellation or non renewal of a policy other than by the reason of surrender 
A  pool  of  assets  which  are  maintained  by  an  insurance  company  and  which  are 
attributable to its life and pensions business 
Insurance  business  which  comprises  life  assurance  business  (life  and  pensions 
business)  and  long-term  disability  insurance  (also  known  as  permanent  health 
insurance) 
Expenses related to the servicing of the in-force book of business (including investment 
and termination expenses and a share of overheads).  
The point at which the sum assured under a life insurance or pension policy becomes 
due to be paid 
Market-consistent embedded value which is the methodology Resolution adopts for the 
purpose  of  its  EEV  disclosure.  Within  a  Market-Consistent  Embedded  Value 
(‘‘MCEV’’)  framework, assets  and  liabilities  are  valued  in  line  with  its  market  prices 
and  consistently  with  each  other.  In  principle,  each  cash  flow  is  valued  using  the 
discount rate consistent with that applied to such a cash flow in the capital markets. 
The incidence of serious illness or disease across a defined group or number of people 
The incidence of deaths at a specified age across a defined group or number of people 
Life and pensions net flows representing gross inflows less redemptions. Gross inflows 
are  premiums  recognised  in  the  period  on  a  regulatory  basis  (excluding  any  switches 
between  funds).  Redemptions  are  claims  and  annuity  payments  (excluding  any 
reinsurance transactions and switches between funds).  
The market value of equity holders’ funds and the shareholders’ interest in the surplus 

held  in  the  non  profit  component  of  the  long-term  business  funds,  determined  on  a 
statutory  solvency  basis  and  adjusted  to  add  back  any  non-admissible  assets  per 
regulatory returns. 
NBAP is a metric for the economic value of the new business written during a defined 
period. It is measured as the present value of the future profits for the shareholders on 
account  of  new  business  sales,  based  on  a  given  set  of  assumptions.  NBAP 
incorporates  best  estimate  assumptions  of  future  rates  of  investment  returns,  policy 
discontinuances,  mortality,  expenses,  inflation,  taxation,  bonus  rates  and  statutory 
valuation bases. 
The  expected  present  value  of  all  future  cash  flows  attributable  to  the  equity  holder 
from new business 
Costs  involved  in  acquiring  new  business  (such  as  commission  payments  to 
intermediaries,  expenses,  reserves)  affecting  the  insurance  company’s  financial 
position  at  that  point  and  where  all  of  the  income  from  that  new  business  (including 
premiums  and  investment  income)  has  not  yet  been  received  and  will  not  be  received 
until a point in the future. To begin with, therefore, a strain may be created where cash 
outflows exceed inflows.  
New  business  strain  costs  involved  in  acquiring  new  business  (such  as  commission 
payments  to  intermediaries,  expenses,  reserves)  affecting  the  insurance  company’s 
financial  position  at  that  point  and  where  all  of  the  income  from  that  new  business 
(including premiums and investment income) has not yet been received and will not be 
received  until  a  point  in  the future.  To  begin  with,  therefore,  a  strain may  be  created 
where cash outflows exceed inflows. As a percentage of PVNBP The industry measure 
of insurance new business sales under the EEV methodology. It is calculated as 100% 
of single premiums plus the expected present value of new regular premiums.  
Risks  relating  to  insurance  (such  as  mortality,  longevity  and  persistency),  business, 
operations and liquidity 
A policy, including a unit linked policy, which is not a with profits policy.  
The  present  value  of  the  projected  future  distributable  profits  after  tax  attributable  to 
equity holders from the covered business in force at the valuation date, adjusted where 
appropriate, to take account of TVOG.  
The  industry  measure  of  insurance  new  business  sales  under  the  EEV.  The  value  to 
equity  shareholders  of  the  net  assets  plus  the  expected  future  profits  on  in-force 
business from a life assurance and pensions business. Prepared in accordance with the 
EEV  Principles  and  Guidance  issued  in  May  2004  by  the  CFO  Forum  and  the 
Additional  Guidance  issued  in  October  2005.  EEV  reports  the  value  of  business  in-
force  based  on  a  set  of  best  estimate  assumptions,  allowing  for  the  impact  of 
uncertainty  inherent  in  future  assumptions,  the  costs  of  holding  required  capital,  the 
value  of  free  surplus  and  TVOG  methodology.  It  is  calculated  as  100%  of  single 
premiums plus the expected present value of new regular premiums. 
PVNBP margin is NBC expressed as a percentage of PVNBP. This measures whether 
new business written is adding value or eroding value.  
A  regular  premium  contract  (as  opposed  to  a  single  premium  contract),  is  one  where 
the policyholder agrees at inception to make regular payments throughout the term of 
the contract 
Insurance taken out by an insurer of the whole or part of the risks that it has already 
insured 
Request for proposals 
The annualized post-tax operating profit on an EEV. The value to equity shareholders 
of  the  net  assets  plus  the  expected  future  profits  on  in-force  business  from  a  life 
assurance and pensions business.  
Calculated as IFRS underlying profit after tax divided by opening net assets.  
The operation of portfolios of insurance that have been closed to new business 
A  single  premium  contract  (as  opposed  to  a  regular  premium  contract  (see  above)), 
involves  the  payment  of  one  premium  at  inception  with  no  obligation  for  the 

New Business Achieved 

Profit (NBAP) 

New business contribution 
(NBC) 
New business strain (NBS) 

NBS margin 
 

Non-Market risks  

Non profit policy 
Present value of in-force 
business (PVIF) 

Present value of new 
business premiums 
(PVNBP) 
 

PVNBP margin 

Regular premium 
 

Reinsurance 

RFP 
Return on EEV (RoEV) 
 

Return on equity (RoE) 
Run-off 
Single premium 
 

31 
 

policyholder to make subsequent additional payments.  
A  self  invested  personal  pension  which  provides  the  policyholder  with  greater  choice 
and  flexibility  as  to  the  range  of  investments  made,  how  those  investments  are 
managed, the administration of those assets and how retirement benefits are taken.  
The cancellation of a long term policy before it reaches maturity 
The part of a long term business fund over and above the sum of its liabilities. In the 
case of a with-profits fund, holders of ‘with-profits’ policies are entitled to a share in 
the surplus, usually in the form of a reversionary bonus added periodically to a payable 
with the sum assured and terminal bonuses added at maturity 
This is a measure of the overall return to shareholders and includes the movement in 
the share price and any dividends paid and reinvested. 
Traditional  Embedded  Value,  a  methodology  of  calculating  embedded  value  using 
deterministic assumptions. 
An IFRS profit measure the Group uses to provide a more meaningful analysis of the 
underlying  business  performance.  Underlying  profit  is  calculated  by  adjusting  profit 
attributable  to  equity  holders  before  tax  for  items  such  as  volatility  arising  from 
accounting mismatches, impairment of intangibles and certain restructuring expenses. 
The  insurer’s  process  of  reviewing  applications  for  insurance  cover  and  the  decision 
whether to accept all or part of the risk and determination of the applicable  premiums 
and also refers to the acceptance of such risk 
A policy where the benefits are determined by reference to the investment performance 
of a specified pool of assets referred to as the unit linked fund. 
A  trust  where  investors  (unit  holders)  obtain  a  fractional  interest  in  a    fund  by 
purchasing  units from the managers of the trust on the    understanding that  they can 
resell their units to the managers at a price  closely reflecting the stock market value of 
the trust’s investments 
Any  policy  under  which  the  value  of  the  benefits  is  measured  in  whole  or    in  part  by 
reference to the with-profits units allocated to that policy 
Business  represented  by  with-profits  policies  and  the  assets  and  liabilities  associated 
with them. 
The  part  of  a  long  term  business  fund  in  which  holders  of  with-profits    policies  are 
entitled to participate in surplus 
A  policy  where,  in  addition  to  guaranteed  benefits  specified  in  the  policy,  additional 
bonuses  may  be  payable  from  relevant  surplus.  The  declaration  of  such  bonuses 
(usually  annually)  reflects,  amongst  other  things,  the  overall  investment  performance 
of the fund of which the policy forms part. Also known as a ‘participating policy’. 
Notional  units  whose  value  or  number  vary  by  reference  to  premiums  paid,  bonuses 
declared  or  surpluses  otherwise  distributed  for  the  purposes  of  calculating  benefits 
payable under policies 
Value of in-force business 

 

SIPP 
 

Surrender 
Surplus 

Total shareholder return 
 
TEV 

Underlying profit 
 

Underwriting 

Unit linked policy 
 
Unit Trust 

Unitised with-profits or 
UWP 
With-profit business 

With-profit fund 

With profits policy or 
With-profit policies 
 

With-profit units 

VIF 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

32 
 

B) NON-LIFE INSURANCE 
 
Glossary- Non-Life 
“1/24th method and 
1/365th method” 

“accident year” 

“actuaries” 

“agent” 

“broker” 

“capital insurance” 

“captive insurer” 

“case reserves” 

“catastrophe “ 

“catastrophe loss” 
“catastrophe excess of 
–loss reinsurance” 

“cede” or ”ceding 
company” 
“claim” 

“claims handling 
costs” 
“claims incurred” 

“claims reserves” 
“combined loss 
amount” 

“combined ratio” 

33 
 

Under the annual basis of accounting, the provision for unearned premiums is recognized 
to cover the proportion of retained premiums written in a year which relate to the period of 
risk from the first date in  the following financial year to the subsequent date of expiry of 
policies. Unearned premiums can be calculated on a time apportionment basis, principally 
on either a daily or monthly pro rata basis. The 1/365th method and 1/24th method are the 
main  time  apportionment  methods  to  calculate  unearned  premiums  under  the  1/365th 
method,  the  unearned  premium  reserve  is  the  aggregate  of  the  unearned  premiums, 
calculated  on  a  daily  pro  rata  basis,  in  respect  of  the  premiums  relating  to  the  unexpired 
periods  of  the  respective  insurance  policies  at  the  end  of  the  financial  period  the  1/24th 
method is based on the general assumptions that the premiums are spread uniformly over 
the month and the average date  of issue of all policies is the middle of that month. 
The  12-month  period  in  which  loss  events  occurred,  regardless  of  when  the  losses  are 
actually reported, booked or paid. 
Specialists trained in mathematics, statistics and accounting who are responsible for  rate, 
reserve and dividend calculations and other statistical studies 
An  individual  who  is  appointed  by  an  insurance  company  to  sell  insurance  policies  on 
behalf of, and within the scope authorised by, the insurance company, and who receives a 
commission from the insurance company.  
A  brokerage  firm  which  represents  and  negotiates  insurance  contracts  on  behalf  of  the 
insured party, and who receives a commission from the insurance company. 
Insurance coverage provided by a company insuring the risks of its parent entity and/ or its 
associated corporations. 
An  insurance  company  which  carries  on  general  insurance  business  only  and  such 
business  (1)  does  not  relate  to  any  liabilities  or  risks  in  respect  of  Which  persons  are 
required by law to be insured and (2) is restricted to the insurance and reinsurance of risks 
of the companies within the same grouping of companies to which that company belongs. 
Reserves for claims and claims handling costs established with  
respect to specific, individual reported claims. 
A  severe  loss,  usually  involving  risks  such  as  earthquake,  flood,  windstorm  and  other 
similar natural disasters. 
Loss and directly identified LAE resulting from catastrophes. 
A  form  of  excess-of-loss  reinsurance  which,  subject  to  a  specified  limit,  indemnified  the 
ceding company for the amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an 
accumulation  of  losses  resulting  from  an  insured  catastrophe.    The  actual  reinsurance 
document is called a “catastrophe cover”.   
When an insurer reinsures its risk with another insurer or reinsurer, it “cedes” business. 

A demand made by an insured person or the beneficiary of an insurance policy in respect 
of a loss which may come within the cover provided on the sum insured by the policy. 
The  expenses  of  settling  general  claims,  including  legal  and  other  fees  and  general 
expenses. 
The  total  amount  of  loss  and  claims  handling  costs  incurred  by  an  insurance  company 
under a policy or policies, whether paid or unpaid. 
case reserves plus IBNR reserves 
For  the  purpose  of  calculating  the  minimum  solvency  margin  required  by  the  CIRC,  the 
sum  of  the  loss  paid,  change  in  loss  and  LAE  reserves  and  loss  paid  for  assumed 
reinsurance,  less  losses  recovered  from  reinsurance  companies,  salvage  and  other 
recoverable amounts. 
The  sum  of  the  loss  ratio  and  the  expense  ratio  for  a  general  insurance  company  or  a 
reinsurance  company.  A  combined  ratio  below  100  generally  indicates  profitable 
underwriting. A combined ratio over 100 generally indicates unprofitable underwriting. An 
insurance  company  with  a  combined  ratio  over  100  may  be  profitable  to  the  extent  net 

Glossary- Non-Life 

“commission” 

“compulsory 
insurance” 
“credit and guarantee 
insurance” 

“deductible” 
“deferred acquisition 
costs” 

“direct premium 
written” or “direct 
premiums written” 
“excess of loss 
reinsurance treaty” 

“expense ratio” 
“facultative 
reinsurance” 
“general insurance” 

“gross premiums 
written” 
“group insurance” 

“IBNR reserves” 

“insurance protection 
fund” 

“long-tail” 

“long term business” 

“long term life 
insurance” 

34 
 

investment results exceed underwriting losses. 
A payment to an agent or broker by an insurance company for service in respect of a sale 
of an insurance product. 
Insurance which the State, by law or regulation, requires to be taken up 

Insurance  that  covers  credit  risk  or  exposure.  Such  insurance  can  be  divided  into  credit 
insurance  and  guarantee  insurance.  Credit  insurance  is  provided  by  an  insurer  to  an 
obligee  to  cover  the  credit  of  an  obligor  such  that  the  insurer  indemnifies  the  obligee 
against  losses  caused  by  the  obligor  failing  to  perform  its  obligations  under  its  contract 
with the obligee. Guarantee insurance involves the provision by an insurer, at the request 
of  an  obligor,  of  a  guarantee  in  favour  of  an  obligee  such  that  if  the  obligor  does  not 
perform its contractual obligations and causes economic losses to  the obligee, the insurer 
indemnifies the obligee against the losses. 
The amount of loss that an insured retains. 
Primarily  commissions  and  underwriting  and  personnel  expenses  net  of  reinsurance 
commissions recovered, which vary with and are primarily related to the production of new 
and renewal business, and which are deferred and amortized rateably over the terms of the 
insurance policies. 
The amounts before government levies and surcharges charged by an insurer from insured 
in exchange for coverage provided in accordance with the terms of an insurance contract. 
It excludes all reinsurance premiums, either assumed or ceded. 
A form of non-proportional reinsurance under which the reinsurer agrees to reimburse the 
ceding  company  for  all  losses  in  excess  of  a  predetermined  amount,  subject  to  a 
predetermined maximum limit. Premiums paid by the ceding company to the reinsurer for 
excess of  loss reinsurance are generally not in the same proportion to the claims recovered 
by the ceding company from the reinsurer 
The ratio of business operating expenses to net earned premiums 
The reinsurance of all or a portion of specific, individual risks to a reinsurer on a case-by-
case basis. 
Also  called  “non-life  insurance”  or  “property  and  casualty  insurance”  and  including 
insurance  such  as  motor,  personal  accident,  goods  in  transit,  employees’  compensation, 
other liabilities and property insurance and medical insurance. 
Direct premiums written plus any reinsurance premiums assumed by the insurer 

Life, personal accident and medical insurance taken out for groups of individuals (typically 
employees of a common employer). 
Reserves for estimated losses and loss adjustment expenses which have been incurred but 
not yet reported to the insurer or reinsurer, including future development of claims which 
have  been  reported  to  the  insurer  or  reinsurer  but  where  the  established  reserves  may 
ultimately prove to be inadequate. 
Fund  set  aside  by  insurance  companies  to  deal  with  serious  insufficiency  of  solvency  or 
paid-in  capital.    An  insurance  company  may,  subject  to  the  approval  of  the  Ministry  of 
Finance and CIRC, use the insurance protection fund if it encounters serious problems in 
paying its obligations or it is on the verge of becoming insolvent.  According to the relevant 
regulations,  insurance  companies  are  required  to  set  aside  and  maintain  1%  of  their 
annual  retained  premiums  to  the  insurance  protection  fund  until  the  total  amount  of  the 
fund reaches 6% of their total asset value. 
Insurance  business  with  a  relatively  longer  period  of  exposure  to  potential  claims  and/or 
with a relatively longer period of settlement, generally more than three years. 
Means any of the classes of insurance business specified in Part 2 of First Schedule of the 
ICO which include, among others, life and annuity, marriage and birth, permanent health, 
capital redemption and retirement scheme management. 
Life  insurance  policies  which  are  intended  to  be  greater  than  twelve  months  in  duration, 
are not subject to unilateral changes in the contract terms and require the performance of 

Glossary- Non-Life 

“loss” 

“loss and LAE 
reserves” 
“loss adjustment 
expenses or LAE” 

“loss and LAE ratio” 
“loss ratio” 

‘loss incurred” 

“loss paid” 

various  functions  and  services  (including  but  not  limited  to  insurance  protection)  for  an 
extended period of time 
An  occurrence  that  is  the  basis  for  submission  and/or  payment  of  claim.  Losses  may  be 
covered, limited or excluded from coverage, depending on the terms of the policy. 
Liabilities  established  by  insurers  to  reflect  the  estimated  cost  of  claims  incurred  that  the 
insurer will ultimately be required to pay in respect of insurance it has written.  Reserves  
The expenses of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the portion of general 
expenses  allocated  to  claim  settlement  costs.    For  the  purpose  of  calculating  reserves,  we 
only include external claims related expenses, such as fees for external legal advisors and 
external claims adjustors. 
The ratio of loss incurred net of reinsurance recovered to net premiums earned. 
The  ratio  of  a  general  insurance  or  reinsurance  company’s  incurred  claims  and  claims 
expenses to net earned premiums. 
The  total  amount  of  loss  and  LAE  incurred  by  an  insurance  company  under  a  policy  or 
policies, whether paid or unpaid 
The  total  amount  of  loss  incurred  and  paid  by  insurance  company  under  a  policy  or 
policies. 

“net premiums written”  Turnover less reinsurance premiums ceded 
“net written premiums”  Gross written premiums for a given period less premiums ceded to reinsurers during such 

period. 

“net earned premiums”  Net written premiums less the change in net unearned premium reserves. 
“net premiums earned”  Net premiums written less the change in net unearned premiums reserves. 
non-proportional 
reinsurance treaty” 

“penetration rate” 
“pool” 

“P&C insurance” 

“premium” 

“premiums earned” 

“property insurance” 

“proportional 
reinsurance treaty” 
Policy Period 
Probable Maximum 
Loss (PML): 

“quota share” or 
“quota share 
reinsurance” 
“rate” or “premium 
rate” 
“reinsurance” 

“reinsurance 
commission” 
“retained premiums” 

35 
 

losses  and  expenses  being  shared 

A  reinsurance  contract  under  which  the  reinsurance  coverage  of  loss  is  not  directly 
proportional to the loss of the ceding company. Generally, non-proportional reinsurance is 
also known as “excess of  loss reinsurance”. 
Direct written premiums as a percentage of GDP 
An  organization  of  insurers  or  reinsurers  through  which  particular  types  of  risks  are 
underwritten  with  premiums, 
in  agreed-upon 
percentages. 
Property  and  casualty  insurance,  which  includes  property  loss  and  damage  insurance, 
liability insurance and credit and guarantee insurance. 
The  amount  charged  on  policies  and  contracts  issued,  renewed  or  reinsured  by  an 
insurance company. 
That  portion  of  gross  written  premium  in  current  and  past  periods  which  applies  to  the 
expired  portion  of  the  policy  period,  calculated  by  subtracting  changes  in  net  unearned 
premium reserves from gross written premiums. 
Insurance that provides coverage to a person with an insurable interest in tangible property 
for that person’s property loss, damage or loss of use. 
A reinsurance contract under which the ceding company and the reinsurer share premiums 
and claims in agreed proportions. 
The period of time in which a policy is in effect. 
The largest loss thought probable under an insurance policy; normally applied to material 
damage  risks  where  the  total  sum  insured  is  not  considered  to  be  at  risk  from  one  loss 
event. 
Reinsurance  where  the  insurer  cedes  an  agreed-upon  percentage  of  liabilities,  premiums 
and loss for each policy covered on a pro rata basis. 

Consideration paid per unit of insurance as a percentage of insured value. 

The  sharing  or  spreading  of  a  risk  by  an  insurer  ceding  part  of  an  insured  risk  to  a 
reinsurer. 
A commission paid to an insurance company by a reinsurer. 

Gross premiums written less reinsurance premiums ceded. 

Glossary- Non-Life 
“retention” 

“risk unit” 
“salvage” 

“security fund” 

“segment expense 
ratio” 
“share premium” 
“short-tail” 

“short-term life 
insurance” 
“statutory reserves” 

“surplus treaty”  

“term life insurance”  

“third-party liability”  
“treaty reinsurance”  

“turnover”  

“underwriting”  

“underwriting 
capacity” Or 
“underwriting limit” 

“underwriting profit” 
or “underwriting loss”  

The risks kept and assumed by an insurer or reinsurer after ceding a part of such risks to 
another reinsurance company. Losses in excess of the retention level up to the outer limit 
of a reinsurance program, are paid by the reinsurer. In proportional treaties, the retention 
may  be  a  percentage  of  the  original  policy’s  limit.  In  excess-of-loss  reinsurance,  the 
retention is a dollar amount of loss, a loss ratio or a percentage.   
The maximum amount of loss that can arise from a single risk under a single policy. 
The  property  or  amount  or  money  an  insurer  recovers  through  the  sale  of  property 
transferred to the insurer as a result of a loss payment. 
The fund established in accordance with the Insurance Law by an insurance company at 
the time of its incorporation.  Such fund is owned by the insurance company but must be 
deposited into a bank designated by the CIRC and may not be used for any purpose other 
than to pay off debts of the insurance company upon liquidation. 
The ratio of the sum of amortization of deferred acquisition costs and insurance protection 
expense to net premiums earned for a particular segment. 
Paid-in capital in addition to issued and paid-up nominal share capital. 
Insurance business with a  relatively shorter period of exposure to potential claims and/or 
with a relatively shorter period of settlement, generally less than three years. 
As used in connection with insurance businesses, life insurance policies for a fixed period 
of no more than twelve months. 
Amounts required to be reserved under the PRC Insurance Law as well as PRC accounting 
standards in order for an insurance company to provide for future obligations with respect 
to all policies. Statutory reserves are liabilities on the balance sheet of financial statements 
prepared in conformity with PRC accounting standards. 
A  form  of  proportional  reinsurance  treaty  whereby  the  reinsured  cedes  and  the  reinsurer 
accepts that share of the risk which exceeds the reinsured’s retention. 

Life  insurance  written  for  a  specified  period  and  under  which  no  cash  value  is  generally 
available on surrender. 
A liability owed to a claimant by the insured party. 
Reinsurance  of  blocks  of  risks,  whereby  all  risks  within  a  certain  class  or  classes,  and 
within  the  scope  defined  in  the  relevant  reinsurance  agreement  known  as  a  treaty,  are 
accepted  by  the  reinsurer.  Typically,  in  treaty  reinsurance,  the  direct  insurer  (that  is, 
reinsured) has the obligation to offer, and the reinsurer is obligated to accept, a specified 
portion of all that type or category of risks originally written by the insurer. 
Gross written premiums net of government levies and surcharges  
and discounts and returns  

The  insurance  function  that  is  responsible  for  (1)  assessing  and  classifying  the  degree  of 
risk a proposed insured party represents and (2) making a decision concerning coverage of 
that risk. Also called risk selection or selection of risks. 
The  amount  of  exposure  that  an  insurer  or  reinsurer  is  willing  or  able  to  place  at  risk. 
Underwriting  capacity  may  apply  to  a  single  risk,  a  line  of  business  or  an  entire  book  of 
business.  Underwriting  capacity  may  be  constrained  by  legal  restrictions,  corporate 
restrictions or indirect restrictions. 
The  pre-tax  profit-or  loss  experienced  by  an  insurance  company  after  deducting  net  loss 
incurred,  amortization  of  deferred  acquisition  costs,  insurance  protection  expense  and 
general and Administrative expenses from net premiums earned. This pre-tax profit or loss 
includes reinsurance assumed and ceded but excludes Investment income. 

“unearned premiums”   The  portion  of  premiums  that  is  allocable  to  the  unexpired  portion  of  the  policy  term  or 

paid in advance for insurance or reinsurance that has not yet been provided. 

Liabilities established by insurers to reflect the amount of unearned premiums. 

“unearned premiums 
reserves” 
 

36 
 

