 

 

 

 

Report of the Committee  

on  

 

'Rationalisation of Investment Routes and Monitoring of 

Foreign Portfolio Investments' 

 

Chairman 

Shri. K.M. Chandrasekhar  

 

 

 

June 12, 2013 

 

  

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

 

Page 2 
 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

1.  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY......................................................................................................... 4 

1.1. 

Features of the Harmonized Model .................................................................................................... 4 

1.2.  Roadmap for Integration ...................................................................................................................... 8 

2.  BACKGROUND ...................................................................................................................... 12 

2.1.  Working Group on Foreign Investment in India ............................................................................ 12 

Formation of Committee on Rationalization of Investment Routes and Monitoring of 

2.2. 
Foreign Portfolio Investments ....................................................................................................................... 13 

2.3.  Union Budget Proposals.................................................................................................................... 15 

3.  PRESENT REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN 
INDIA ................................................................................................................................................. 17 

3.1. 

Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) ....................................................................................................... 18 

3.2. 

Portfolio Investment Scheme (PIS) .................................................................................................. 18 

4.  RATIONALE FOR INTEGRATED POLICY ON FOREIGN INVESTMENTS ........... 32 

5.  A HARMONIZED FOREIGN INVESTMENT MODEL .................................................... 33 

5.1. 

Features of the Harmonized Model .................................................................................................. 33 

6.  ROADMAP FOR INTEGRATION........................................................................................ 43 

6.1.  Operational Requirements ................................................................................................................ 43 

6.2. 

Taxation Framework ........................................................................................................................... 47 

6.3. 

Legal Requirements............................................................................................................................ 48 

7.  ANNEXURE ............................................................................................................................. 50 
 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 3 
 

1. Executive Summary 
 
SEBI  Board  in  its  meeting  held  on  October  06,  2012  decided  that  SEBI  will  prepare  a  draft 
guideline  based  on  the  guidance  of  the  WGFI,  for  consideration  of  the  Government  of  India 
(GoI). It was also decided that SEBI/RBI will create necessary regulatory framework based on 
the guidelines, which will be laid down by the GoI. 
 
To  implement the  above, SEBI formed a  “Committee on  Rationalization of  Investment  Routes 
and Monitoring of Foreign Portfolio Investments” (hereinafter referred to as “Committee”) under 
the  Chairmanship  of  Shri  K.  M.  Chandrasekhar,  comprising  of  representatives  from  GoI,  RBI 
and various market participants.    
 
This  report  of  the  committee  describes  the  various  portfolio  investment  routes  which  are 
currently available to foreign investors and suggests a draft guideline and regulatory framework 
for  rationalization  of 
the 
recommendations  of  the  Working  Group  on  Foreign  Investment  in  India  (WGFI),  for 
consideration of the Government.  
 
This  report  also  provides  recommendations  for  a  harmonized  model  of  investment  routes 
designed to overcome the shortcomings of multiple routes that exist today.     

investments,  keeping  as  a  starting  point, 

foreign  portfolio 

 

 

 

1.1. Features of the Harmonized Model 
 
The  Committee  has  recommended  creation  of  a  single  route  for  various  Foreign  Portfolio 
Investors (FPI) by merging the present day FII, Sub Account and QFI regimes where there 
will be common market entry, limit monitoring and reporting norms.   However, there will be 
segregations  for  applying  risk  based  Know  Your  Customer  (KYC)  norms,  Investment 
guidelines and restrictions. 
 
The  Committee  felt  that  NRIs/PIOs  presently  have  a  liberal  route  for  accessing  securities 
market.  NRIs/PIOs should continue to be viewed as a distinct market participant enjoying 
certain  privileges  in  terms  of  investment  permissions  not  available  to  foreign  investors.   
Accordingly, the Committee recommended to retain NRIs as a separate investor class with 
the  same  limits  as  currently  applicable  (i.e.  10%  of  the  paid  up  capital  of  the  investee 
company). 
 
The Committee felt that FVCI route has certain benefits such as non applicability of pricing 
norms and relaxation from post IPO lock in requirement. These benefits have been given to 
FVCI  route  to  promote  Venture  Capital  Investments.      Accordingly,  the  Committee 
recommended  that  the  FVCI  as  an  investor  class  would  continue.      Additionally,  the 
Committee recommended that the current FVCI regime should be expanded to include more 
sectors under its ambit as against the currently prescribed 9 sectors.  
 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 4 
 

 
The features of the Harmonized Model are described below: 

 
1.1.1. 

 

Foreign Portfolio Investor (FPI) 

The Committee recommended for merging of FII, Sub Account and QFI into a new 
investor class to be termed as “Foreign Portfolio Investor” (FPI).   

Simplification of entry norms for FIIs, Sub Accounts, and QFIs 

1.1.2. 
 
The  committee  recommended  that  FPIs  would  not  be  required  to  obtain  direct 
registration  with  SEBI.  Instead,  DDPs  authorized  by  SEBI  would  register  FPIs  on 
behalf of SEBI subject to compliance with KYC requirements.  The FPI that meet the 
prescribed  eligibility  criteria  shall  directly  approach  Designated  Depository 
Participants  (DDPs),  authorised  by  SEBI.      The  DDPs  shall  perform  due  diligence 
and  KYC,  before  registering  FPI,  on  behalf  of  SEBI,  and  allowing  such  entities  to 
make investment in permitted securities.  

 
Uniform entry norms for Foreign Portfolio Investor 

1.1.3. 
 
It  is  recommended  that  all  the  categories  of  portfolio  investors  be  termed  as  FPIs. 
The  FPI  shall  be  a  resident  in  a  country,  whose  securities  market  regulator  is  a 
signatory  to  IOSCO’s  MMOU  (Appendix A  Signatories)  or  a  signatory of  a bilateral 
MOU with SEBI. In case of a Bank, it should be resident of a country whose central 
bank is a member of BIS. 
 
Provided that the person is not resident in a country listed in the public statements 
issued by FATF (high risk and non-compliant countries) from time to time. 
 
1.1.4. 

Categorization of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and Portfolio 

investment 

 

i. 

The Committee recommended the following with respect to categorization of foreign 
investment: 
 
Portfolio investments to be defined as investments by any single investor 
or  investor  group,  which  shall  not  exceed  10  percent  of  the  equity 
securities including the future conversion of existing convertible securities 
such  as  Compulsorily  Convertible  Debentures  (CCD)  Compulsorily 
Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS) of an Indian company.  

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 5 
 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

Portfolio investment shall be permitted only in listed equity securities.  For 
this  purpose,  listed  equity  securities  would  also  include  participation  by 
FPIs  in  issues  such  as  Initial  Public  Offer,  Qualified  Institutional 
Placement,  Institutional Placement Programme etc.  of  Indian  companies 
as  well  as  tendering  shares  in  an  open  offer  or  buyback  announced  in 
relation to shares of listed Indian companies. 

The  prevailing  practice  where  private  placement  may  be  through  either 
FPI (for example a QIP issue) or FDI route depending on the nature of the 
transaction may be continued. 
 
In  case  of  unlisted  company,  the  private  placement  shall  be  under  FDI 
route.     
 
In  circumstances,  where  the  listing  does  not  take  place  within  the 
stipulated timeframe, such foreign investments shall be re-categorized as 
FDI. 
 
Investments  in  unlisted  securities,  regardless  of  the  level  of  ownership 
that they represent, shall be regarded as FDI.  
 

vii.  Where there is an FDI investor, all equity holdings of such an investor in 
the  concerned  company,  regardless  of the  manner  in  which  such  equity 
holdings have been acquired, should be classified as FDI. 
 

viii.  Where  an  investor  initially  acquires  less  than  10  percent  of  the  voting 
equity  of  an  Indian  company  and  thereafter  acquires  additional  equity 
which takes the investor’s aggregate holding to over 10 percent, in such a 
scenario, all of the investor’s holdings should be classified as FDI. 
 

ix.  Where an investor has FDI holdings in excess of 10 percent of the voting 
equity of a company it will retain its FDI classification even if the investor 
were to dilute his holding to a level below 10 percent of the voting equity 
of the company. 
 
Investment classification and tracking could be accomplished through the 
DDPs. 

x. 

 

 
 
 
 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 6 
 

Risk Based Approach towards KYC 

1.1.5. 
 
From  the  point  of  view  of  KYC,  the  committee  recommended  for  following 
categorization of FPIs based on their perceived risk profile: 
 

Category  Eligible Foreign Investors 

Funds, 

Central 

and  Government 
Government 
related  foreign  investors  such  as 
Foreign 
Banks, 
Governmental  Agencies,  Sovereign 
Wealth 
International/ 
Multilateral Organizations/ Agencies  
a)  *Appropriately  regulated  broad 
based  funds  such  as  Mutual 
Funds, 
Trusts, 
Insurance/Reinsurance 
Companies, Other Broad Based 
Funds etc. 

Investment 

 
b)  *Appropriately regulated entities 
Asset 
such 
Management 
Companies, 
Investment Managers/ Advisors, 
Portfolio Managers etc.  

Banks, 

as 

 
c)  Broad  based 

investment 
appropriately regulated 

funds  whose 
is 

manager 

Perceived Risk Profile 
 
Low Risk 
 
As 
these  entities  are  either 
owned/  controlled  by  respective 
government  they  are  perceived 
to be low risk entities.  
Moderate Risk 
 
these  entities  are 
Generally, 
investment 
either 
vehicles  or 
that 
manage  portfolios  of  pooled 
vehicles.    Since  these  entities 
are  appropriately  regulated  in 
their 
home 
jurisdictions  or  corpus  of  the 
fund 
retirement 
benefits  of 
the  employees/ 
academic  research  etc.,  these 
are  perceived  to  be  moderate 
risk entities 

institutions 

respective 

for  post 

pooled 

is 

I 

II 

III 

 
d)  University  Funds  and  Pension 

Funds 

 
e)  University  related  Endowments 
already  registered  with  SEBI  as 
FII/Sub Account 

II 

I  and 

All  other  FPIs  not  eligible  under 
Category 
such  as 
Endowments,  Charitable  Societies/ 
Trust, 
Corporate 
Bodies,  Trusts,  Individuals,  Family 
Offices, etc.  
 

Foundations, 

High Risk 
 
Generally, these entities are not 
regulated 
respective 
home jurisdictions, these entities 
are  perceived  as  high 
risk 
entities. 

their 

in 

*Appropriately  Regulated  is  meant  to  include  relevance  of  activity  i.e.  securities  market 
regulations in case of an entity related to investment segment, capital market activities; and 
the Banking Regulations in case of a banking entity.  

 
 
 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 7 
 

1.1.6. Other recommendations related to KYC 

 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

The requirement of submitting personal identification documents such as copy of 
passport,  photograph  etc.  of  the  designated  officials  of  FPIs  belonging  to 
Category I and Category II shall be done away with. 

Specific Provision of PML Rules especially Rule 9 may be amended to adopt risk 
based approach for KYC.   

To permit DDPs for placing reliance on Global Custodian/Banks for KYC while on 
boarding the investor. .  

For  updation of KYC  documents,  it  is  recommended  to  follow  a  2  year/ 5  year 
rule based on the risk classification of the investor as per above i.e. 2 years for 
non low risk investors and 5 years for low risk investors.   

 

 

1.2. Roadmap for Integration 

 
1.2.1. 

 

Eligibility of DDP 

It  will  be  mandatory  for  FPI  to  appoint  a  DDP.    The  DDP  would  perform  due 
diligence and KYC of FPIs as per the stipulated norms. 

 
It  is  suggested  that  the  DDP  shall  meet  all  of  the  following  eligibility  criteria  in 
order to service FPIs.  
 

i.  DDP to be a Custodian registered with SEBI. 
ii.  DDP to be an Authorised Dealer Category 1 bank as per RBI. 
iii.  DDP to be a Depository Participant registered with SEBI. 
iv.  DDP  to  have  multinational  presence  either  through  its  branches  or 
through  agency  relationships  with  intermediaries  regulated  in  their 
respected home jurisdictions.   

v.  DDP  to demonstrate that  it  has  systems  and procedures  to  comply  with 
the FATF Standards, Prevention of Money Laundering (PML) Act, Rules 
and SEBI circulars issued from time to time; and 

vi.  DDP  to  obtain  prior  approval  of  SEBI  before  commencing  the  activities 

relating to opening of accounts of FPIs. 
 

Based on  the experience gathered,  the  eligibility  criteria for  registration of  DDP 
may be later reviewed by SEBI.  
 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 8 
 

 
1.2.2. 

Grandfathering Arrangements 
 

i.  To  avoid  business  discontinuity,  it  is  recommended  to  grandfather  all  entities 
which  are  presently  registered  with  SEBI  as  custodian  of  securities,  as  DDPs.  
The  existing  QDPs  authorised  by  SEBI  currently  not  meeting  the  proposed 
eligibility  criteria  may be  allowed further time  period of one  year  to  comply  with 
the proposed eligibility requirement of a DDP.  Subsequently, if such QDPs fail to 
comply with the same, then they may be required to surrender the authorization.   
 

ii.  It  is  recommended  that  all  existing  investments  held  by  the  FPIss  acquired 

through either FDI route and/or PIS route shall be grandfathered.  
 

iii.  It  is  recommended  that  all  existing  entities  registered  with  SEBI  as  FII,  sub-

account, and QFIs as on the effective date, shall be deemed to be FPIs.  

 

 

1.2.3. 

Operational Guidelines 

The Committee recommended the following broad operational guidelines. However, 
committee  was  also  of  the  view  that  operational  guidelines/  framework  may  be 
prescribed by SEBI from time to time. 

 

i.  The  committee  recommended  that  FPIs  would  not  be  required  to  obtain  direct 
registration with SEBI. Instead, DDPs authorized by SEBI would register FPIs on 
behalf of SEBI subject to compliance with KYC requirements. 
 

ii.  Orders shall be placed directly by the FPI with SEBI registered Stock Brokers on 

the same lines as the present framework applicable to FIIs.  
 

iii.  Appointment of DDP shall be mandatory for all categories of FPIs. All settlement 

of transactions by FPIs must be done through DDP acting as a Custodian.  
 

iv.  FPIs shall be permitted to transact in all the securities where FIIs are presently 

permitted and any other instruments as permitted from time to time.  
 

v.  Margins and risk management framework as applicable in the capital market will 

apply.   
 

vi.  The Committee recommended that under the proposed FPI regime, category III 
FPIs  will  not  be allowed to  issue PNs/ODIs.  The  committee  also  recommended 
that  those  broad  based  funds,  belonging  to  Category  II,  which  are  not  directly 
regulated  by  the  appropriate  regulator  in  their  home  jurisdiction,  should  not  be 
allowed  to  issue  ODIs/PNs.  The  ODIs/PNs  issuer  FPIs  will  continue  to  report 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 9 
 

 

 

 

directly  to  SEBI,  the  details  of  ODIs/PNs  on  a  regular  basis,  as  prescribed  by 
SEBI. 

 
 
1.2.4. 

Investment Limits 

i.  The  Investor  and  DDP  shall  ensure  that  the  total  shareholding  held  by  the  FPI 
shall  not  exceed  10%  of  paid  up  equity  capital  of  the  company  at  any  point  of 
time.      This  investment  limit  shall  be  applicable  to  each  class  of  equity  shares 
having  separate  and  distinct  ISIN.    Where  more  than  one  FPI  have  same 
common beneficial owner, all such FPIs shall be together treated as one FPI for 
the purpose of this investment limit. 
 

ii.  Aggregate  shareholding  of all  FPIs  shall not  exceed  the  lower  of  (i)  24% of the 
paid up equity capital of the  company at any point of time or (ii) the sectoral cap, 
in respect of each equity share class having separate and distinct ISIN.  
 

iii.  In  case  the  company  raises  their  foreign  ownership  limit  to  the  sectoral  cap as 

per the FDI policy, then the foreign ownership will be monitored at that level.  
 

iv.  The  monitoring of  investment  limits at  the  individual  level  may be  monitored by 

the respective DDPs. 
 

v.  Dissemination of FPI investment data shall be carried out by the depositories. 

 

vi.  Prohibitions imposed on foreign investments by FEMA, shall apply to FPIs. 

 

1.2.5. 

Legal Requirements  

 

The process for evolving an integrated policy on foreign investments would entail the 
following amendments/modifications in the legal framework: 

i.  FII  regulations  prescribed by  SEBI  and  QFI framework prescribed by SEBI  and 
the RBI would be required to be repealed and replaced by a new framework for 
FPIs.  
 

ii.  FEMA  (Transfer  or  Issue  of  Security  by  a  Person  Resident  Outside  India) 
Regulations,  notably  Regulations  5  (2),  5(6),  7A,  8  and  Schedule  2,  5,  8  and 
other related provisions would have to be amended and replaced to prescribe the 
permissible caps and investment levels applicable to foreign portfolio investor; 

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 10 
 

iii.  Necessary amendments in FEMA to replace references to FIIs with FPIs; 

 

iv.  Necessary amendments to PML Rules; 

 

v.  Necessary amendments in Income Tax Act, 1961;  

vi.  General permission granted by RBI to FIIs dated December 17, 2003; 

 

vii.  GoI Guidelines dated September 14, 1992; 

 

viii.  RBI's Foreign Exchange Management framework 

 

ix.  Necessary  amendment  to  the  following  regulations  are  needed  to  replaces 

references to FIIs and QFIs and recognize the FPIs-  

a.  Consolidated  FDI  Policy  dated  April  5,  2013  (more  particularly  paragraphs 
2.1.14,  2.1.32,  3.1.4,  3.1.5,  3.1.7,  3.2.5(f),  3.6.2  (vi),  4.1.2,  6.2.7.5,  6.2.8.1, 
6.2.8.2,  6.2.15.1.1.,  6.2.17.1,  6.2.17.2,  6.2.17.4.2,  6.2.17.4.3,  6.2.17.5, 
6.2.17.6.,  6.2.19,  paragraphs  3  and  5  of  the  Format  of  Form  FC-GPR, 
paragraphs  2.2,  2.3,  4,  5.1(iii)  and  (vii),  6.5  of  Annex  -2,  Format  of  Annual 
Return on Foreign Liabilities and Assets, Form FC-TRS, Form DR; 
 

b.  RBI  Master  Circular  on  Foreign  Investment  In  India  dated  July  2,  2012 
(Section  II,  Section  IV  (3),  (5),  (6),  Section  V(6)  to  make  changes 
corresponding  to  the  changes  in  the  Consolidated  FDI  Policy  in  relation  to 
references to FIIs while calculating the sectoral cap); 

c.  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009 

(Regulations 2(za), 2(zb), 2(zd)(ii)); 

d.  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011 

(Regulation 2(q)(2)(ix)) ; 

e.  The SEBI Act, 1992 (Section 12(1A)) 

 

To  avoid  too  many  individual  legislative  amendments,  it  is  also  suggested  that  a 
clause may be introduced in the respective legislations stating that the term “FII” in 
the legislations shall mean “FPI registered with DDP authorised by SEBI”. 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 11 
 

2. Background 
 

2.1. Working Group on Foreign Investment in India 

 

 

During  November  2009,  the  Ministry  of  Finance  (MoF)  set  up  a  working  group  called 
Working Group on Foreign Investment in India (WGFI), headed by the then UTI Mutual Fund 
Chief Shri U. K. Sinha, with a view to rationalize the present arrangements relating to foreign 
portfolio investments by Foreign Institutional Investors (FII)/ Non Resident Indians (NRI) and 
other foreign investors like Foreign Venture Capital Investor (FVCI) and Private Equity entity 
etc.   

A  summary  of  major  recommendations  made  by  WGFI  in  its  report  submitted  during  July 
2010 is listed in the table below: 

 

Sr. No. 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

Summarised WGFI Recommendations 

Single window for registration and clearance of portfolio investment regulations that 
does not distinguish between investor classes 
Qualified DP with global presence through branch network and agency relationship 
would be legally responsible for enforcing OECD standard KYC requirement 
Such Global DPs would have higher capital requirements and would need to pass a 
detailed “fitness test” administered by SEBI. 
FIIs, FVCIs and NRIs would be abolished as an investor class 

Promulgate broader KYC requirements that meet OECD standard practiced and also 
adhere to PMLA rules and regulations 
Consistent with Lahiri Committee recommendations, in areas where there are 
no separate ceilings by an Act of Parliament, QFI investment ceilings should be 
reckoned over and above prescribed FDI sectoral caps 
SEBI to have final right to demand details about end investor with regard to PNs 

FII Regulations would be replaced by a new QFI regulations 

Schedules  specifying  permitted  investments  by  FIIs,  FVCIs,  and  NRIs  would 
ostensible be replaced by a new schedule for QFIs 
All  entities  structuring  and  offering  securities  market  related  products  in  overseas 
markets,  who  offer  these  products  to  residents  on  Indian  soil  should  be  registered 
with SEBI 
Remove the caps on rupee denominated corporate debt.  Any desired restrictions on 
debt  related  capital  flows  could  be  expressed  in  percentage  instead  of  absolute 
terms. 
Grandfather  existing  FVCI  investments  to  avoid  business  discontinuity  for  existing 
firms 
 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 12 
 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

Consider  amending  the  consolidated  FDI  policy  to  exempt  SEBI  registered  QFI  s 
from seeking approval of the government prior to investing in a DVF incorporated as 
a Trust 
(i) SEBI FVCI and FII Regulations would be replaced by new QFI Regulation 
(ii)  FEMA  (Transfer  or  issue  of  security  by  a  person  resident  outside  India) 
Regulations  would  have  to  restate  permissible  caps  and  investment  levels,  now 
unified, across asset classes 
(iii)  Schedules  specifying  permitted  investment  by  FIIs,  FVCIs  and  NRIs  would 
ostensible replaced by a new schedule for QFIs. 
Closely review how and whether regulation tailored to fit specific classes of investors 
like  FVCIs  and  NBFCs  will  be  included,  excluded  or  modified  under  the  QFI 
framework 
All entities structuring and offering securities market related products in the overseas 
market,  who  offer  these  products  to  residents  on  Indian  soil,  should  register  with 
SEBI  and  fully  disclose  all  promotional  materials,  including  product  literature, 
advertisements and brochures 
(i) Capital flows management regulations  should focus on spot instruments and not 
derivatives 
(ii)  Harmonize  the  regulation of futures, forwards,  and  options.    There  should  be  a 
general  policy  preference  to  encourage  greater  trade  in  exchange-traded,  as 
opposed to over-the-counter derivatives; 
(iii)  Streamline  registration  processes  by  implementing  QFI  model,  as  suggested 
above, to reduce the incentives to participate in offshore markets such as those for 
participatory notes. 
Qualified  DPs  with  global  presence  would  be  made  responsible  for  enforcing  KYC 
requirements with respect to foreign investors 
Shifting taxation of capital gains earned by foreign investors from the existing source 
based system to residence based one. 

 

 

 

2.2. Formation  of  Committee  on  Rationalization  of  Investment 

Routes and Monitoring of Foreign Portfolio Investments 

SEBI Board in its meeting held on October 06, 2012 decided that SEBI will prepare a draft 
guideline based on the guidance of the WGFI, for consideration of the Government of India 
(GoI). It was also decided that SEBI/RBI will create necessary regulatory framework based 
on the guidelines, which will be laid down by the GoI. 

Accordingly, in order to implement the Board’s above decision, SEBI,  formed a “Committee 
on  Rationalization  of  Investment  Routes  and  Monitoring  of  Foreign  Portfolio  Investments” 
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the  Committee”),  under  the  Chairmanship  of  Shri  K.  M. 
Chandrasekhar,  comprising  of  representatives  from  GoI,  RBI  and    various  market 
participants to review and make recommendations on the following issues:  

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 13 
 

1.  To  prepare  a  draft  guideline  and  regulatory  framework  for  an  integrated  policy  on 
foreign investments, keeping as a starting point, the recommendations of the Working 
Group on Foreign Investment in India (WGFI), for consideration of the Government.  

2.  To  devise  a  framework  for  according  preferential  treatment  to  long  term  investors 

such as Sovereign Wealth Funds and pension funds for allocation of debt limits.   

3.  To  examine  the  feasibility  of  the  proposal  forwarded  by  RBI  with  respect  to  the 
monitoring of foreign investment by FIIs/NRIs under the portfolio investment scheme 
in Indian companies. 

4.  To  determine  the  feasibility  of  allowing  FIIs  to  invest  in  Pass  Through  Certificates 

(PTC).  

The  committee  decided  to  review  and  provide  recommendations  primarily  with  respect  to 
issue  mentioned  above  at  Sr.  No.  01.  The  committee  further  decided  that  SEBI  and  RBI 
would address the issues mentioned above at Sr. Nos. 2, 3 and 4 separately.   
 

2.2.1. 

Sub Committee on KYC 

 

The Sub Committee on KYC was constituted to assess whether a uniform approach 
or a risk based approach should be followed towards KYC for FPIs.  The broad terms 
of reference of the sub-committee were as follows: 
 

i. 

Simplification  of  entry  norms  for  different  categories  of  foreign  portfolio 
investors such as FII, sub-accounts, QFI, FVCI and NRIs; 

 

ii.  Uniform entry norms for FPIs; 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

 
Eligibility criteria for designated Depository Participant; 
 
Approach towards KYC; 
 
To suggest minimum documentation requirements for KYC in respect of all the 
proposed categories of foreign portfolio investors; 
 
To  review  the  existing  KYC  norms  applicable  to  NRIs  such  as  the  document 
attestation options for NRIs based on the inputs to be provided by Ministry of 
Overseas Indian Affairs etc; 
 
To suggest suitable modifications in Rule 9 of PML Rules on the basis of inputs 
to be provided by Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance. 

 
 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 14 
 

2.2.2. 

Sub Committee on Treatment of Foreign Investments 

The Sub Committee on Treatment of Foreign Investments was formed to examine in 
detail  the  difficulties  in  implementation  of  the  proposal  of  categorization  of  foreign 
investment as FDI and portfolio investment based on a threshold of 10 percent.   

 

It  was  decided  to  refer  the  following  terms  of  reference  to  the  aforesaid  sub- 
committee:   

i.  To  provide  recommendations  with  respect to  NRI  and  FII  investments  in  Indian 
companies as against permissible investment limits and to assess the impact of 
possible  volatility  in  the  market  due  to  proposed  increase  in  aggregate  foreign 
portfolio  investment  limits  consequent  to  merging  of    FII,  QFI  and  NRI 
investments limits.  

 
ii.  To  identify  requisite  amendments  needed  in  the  Income  Tax  Act,  1961 
consequent  to  proposed  integration  of  the  various  routes  for  foreign  portfolio 
investors. 

iii.  To  provide  recommendations  to  a  separate  committee  constituted  by  the 
Government  of  India  namely  “Committee  for  Rationalizing  the  Definition  of  FDI 
and FII”, which would examine and work out the details of the application of the 
principle internationally for defining FDI and FII. 

 

2.3. Union Budget Proposals  

 

 

 

The Hon’ble Finance Minister while presenting the Union Budget for the year 2013-14, inter-
alia made the following budget proposals: 
 

1.  “There are many categories of foreign portfolio investors such as FIIs, Sub-Accounts, 
QFIs etc. and there are also different avenues and procedures for them. Designated 
depository  participants,  authorised  by  SEBI,  will  now  be  free  to  register  different 
classes of portfolio investors, subject to compliance with KYC guidelines.”  

2.   “SEBI will simplify the procedures and prescribe uniform registration and other norms 
for  entry  of  foreign  portfolio  investors.  SEBI  will  converge  the  different  KYC  norms 
and adopt a risk-based approach to KYC to make it easier for foreign investors such 
as  central  banks,  sovereign  wealth  funds,  university  funds,  pension  funds  etc.  to 
invest in India.”  

3.  “In order to remove the ambiguity that prevails on what is Foreign Direct Investment 
(FDI)  and  what  is  Foreign  Institutional  Investment  (FII),  I  propose  to  follow  the 
international  practice  and  lay  down  a  broad  principle  that,  where  an  investor  has  a 
stake  of  10  percent  or  less  in  a  company,  it  will  be  treated  as  FII  and,  where  an 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 15 
 

investor has a stake of more than 10 percent, it will be treated as FDI. A committee 
will  be  constituted  to  examine  the  application  of  the  principle  and  to  work  out  the 
details expeditiously.” 

Regarding  the  proposal  mentioned  above  at  Sr.  No.  3,  the  Committee  decided  to  provide 
recommendations  to  a  separate  committee  constituted  by  the  Government  of  India  namely 
“Committee for Rationalizing the Definition of FDI and FII”, which would examine and work out 
the details of the application of the international principle for defining FDI and FII. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 16 
 

3. Present Regulatory Framework for Foreign Investment in 

India 

 

At present foreign investment in India is channelized through the following routes as depicted in 
the figure: 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Foreign Direct 
 
Investment 
 

FOREIGN INVESMENT ROUTES IN INDIA 

 

Foreign 

Investments 

Foreign Portfolio 

Foreign Venture 

Investment 

Capital Investment 

Other investment 

(GSec, NCD) 

Non-repatriable 

investment  

Govt 

Route 

FII 

NRI, PIO, 

QFI 

FII 

NRI, PIO, 

NRI, PIO 

QFI 

SEBI 

Reg. 

FVCI 

VCF, 

IVCU 

 

 

 

Automatic 

 

Route 

 

 

 

 

Person’s resident 

outside India 

 

 

 

 

Source: Master Circular dated July 02, 2012 issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) 
 

Foreign investment in India is primarily channelized in three forms: 

1. 
2. 
3. 

Foreign Direct Investment  
Portfolio Investment Scheme 
Foreign Venture Capital Investment  

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 17 
 

 

 

 

3.1. Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) 

Under the Consolidated FDI Policy issued by the Department of Industrial Policy and 
Promotion (DIPP), Ministry of Commerce and Industry, GoI, a non-resident entity can 
invest in India, subject to the FDI Policy except in those sectors/ activities which are 
prohibited.  
 
However, a citizen of Bangladesh or an entity incorporated in Bangladesh can invest 
only  under  the  Government  route.  Further,  a  citizen  of  Pakistan  or  an  entity 
incorporated 
in 
sectors/activities other than defence, space and atomic energy and sectors/ activities 
prohibited for foreign investment. 
 
These  investments  are  subject  to  the  extant  Foreign  Exchange  Management  Act 
(FEMA) Regulations and extant FDI policy including sectoral caps. 
 
An Indian company may receive FDI under the two routes as given under: 

the  Government  route, 

in  Pakistan  can 

invest,  only  under 

Automatic Route 

i. 
ii.  Government Route 

 
FDI is allowed under the automatic route without prior approval either of GoI or RBI in 
all  activities/sectors  as  specified  in  the  consolidated  FDI  Policy,  issued  by  the 
Government of India from time to time. 
 
FDI in activities not covered under the automatic route requires prior approval of GoI 
which are considered by the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB), Department 
of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance.  
 
The  Indian  company  having  received  FDI  either  under  the  Automatic  route  or  the 
Government  route  is  required  to  comply  with  provisions  of  the  FDI  policy  including 
reporting the FDI to RBI. 

3.2. Portfolio Investment Scheme (PIS)  

Portfolio  Investment  Scheme  (PIS)  allows  eligible  investors  such  as  Foreign 
Institutional  Investors  Non  Resident  Indians  (NRIs),  Persons  of  Indian  Origin  (PIOs) 
and  Qualified  Foreign  Investors  to  invest  in  shares  and  convertible  debentures  of 
Indian  companies,  and  units  of  domestic  mutual  funds  at  any  of  the  Indian  stock 
exchanges. 
   

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 18 
 

This investment can be done under repatriation or non-repatriation basis in respect of 
shares or convertible debentures sold or purchased through a registered stock broker 
on a recognized stock exchange. 

Under  the  Foreign  Portfolio  Investment  route,  the  following  entities  are  allowed  to 
invest: 

i.  Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) and Sub Accounts,  
ii.  Non Resident Indian (NRIs)/ Person of Indian Origin (PIOs),and 
iii.  Qualified Foreign Investors (QFIs) 

 

 

 

3.2.1. 

FIIs and Sub Accounts 

In  terms  of  SEBI  (Foreign  Institutional  Investor)  Regulations,  1995,  "Foreign 
Institutional Investor" means an institution established or incorporated outside India 
which proposes to make investment in India in securities. “Sub Account” means any 
person  resident  outside  India,  on  whose  behalf  investments  are  proposed  to  be 
made  in  India  by  a  foreign  institutional  investor  and  who  is  registered  as  a  sub-
account under these regulations. 

The  Reserve  Bank  of  India  (RBI),  has  granted  general  permission  to  SEBI 
Registered FIIs to invest in India under the PIS route. The registration given by SEBI 
also operates as approval under Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (FEMA) 
to invest in India.  

3.2.1.1.  Registration Requirements 

i. 

As per the present regulations, the following categories are eligible for 
grant of FII registration: 

 

 

a.  Fund  Category: 

fund,  Endowment, 
  Pension  Fund,  University 
Foundation,  Charitable  Trust,  Mutual  Fund, 
Investment  Trust, 
Charitable  society,  Foreign  Central  Bank,  Sovereign  Wealth  Fund 
(SWF),  Foreign  Governmental 
International/Multilateral 
agency, Insurance/Reinsurance Company, Broad Based Fund 

  Agency, 

b.  Non  Fund  Category:  Investment  Manager/Advisor,  Trustee  of  trust, 

Bank, Asset Management Company, Institutional Portfolio manager 

 

ii. 

An FII applicant should be regulated in its home jurisdiction.  Following 
categories  are  granted  FII  registration  even  though  they  may  not  be 
regulated in home jurisdiction: 

 

 

 

 
 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 19 
 

a.  University funds; 
b.  Endowments; 
c.  Foundations; 
d.  Charitable trusts; and 
e.  Charitable societies 

 
record,  professional  competence, 

Track 
financial  soundness, 
experience,  general  reputation  of  fairness  and  integrity  of  the  FII 
applicant are considered for granting registration. 
 
Sub-accounts can be registered under one of the following categories: 

iii. 

iv. 

a.  Broad based fund,  
b.  broad based portfolio,  
c.  university fund,  
d.  endowment,  
e.  foundation,  
f.  charitable trust,  
g.  charitable society,  
h.  foreign corporate,  
i. 
foreign individual,  
j.  sovereign wealth fund and  
k.  Proprietary fund of the FII.  

 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

The  broad  based  criteria  have  been  defined  as  20  investors  with  no 
single  investor  having  stake  of  more  than  49%.  A  foreign  corporate 
seeking registration as sub-account must have asset base of not less 
than  two  billion  US  dollars,  average  net  profit  of  not  less  than  fifty 
million US dollars during the three financial year preceding the date of 
application.  A  foreign  individual  must  have  networth  of  not  less  than 
fifty million US dollars.   
 
The FII is required to enter into an agreement with domestic custodian 
to act  as  custodian  of  securities  and  also appoint  a  branch  of a bank 
approved  by  Reserve  Bank  of  India  for  opening  of  foreign  currency 
denominated account and a special non-resident rupee account. 
 
The  registration  fee  for  an  FII  is  USD  5,000  for  every  block  of  three 
years.    The  validity  of  registration  of  FII  is  permanent,  subject  to 
payment  of fees  every block  of  three  years.   The  registration fees for 
Sub account is USD 1,000.  The validity of registration of sub account 
is co-terminus with that of its FII. 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 20 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.2.1.2. Investment Opportunities 

i. 

Presently, an FII can make investment in the following types of securities: 
Securities  in  primary  and  secondary  markets  including  shares, 
debentures  and  warrants  of  companies,  unlisted,  listed  or  to  be 
listed on a recognized stock exchange in India; 
 

ii.  Units of mutual funds/ schemes floated by a Collective Investment 

Scheme; 

iii.  Dated Government Securities, other debt instruments; 

iv.  Derivatives traded on a recognized stock exchange; 

v.  Commercial papers; 

vi. 

Security Receipts (sub-accounts cannot invest in SRs) 

vii. 

Indian Depository Receipts (IDR) 

3.2.1.3. Account Opening 

Before  an  FII  starts  to  make  investment,  it  needs  to  put  in  place  the 
following, apart from SEBI registration: 

i. 

Appoint  a  Custodian  of  securities  –  The  custodian  of  securities 
acts as an agent of FII and is the Power of Attorney (POA) holder. 
 

ii.  Obtain PAN from Income Tax Department. 

iii.  Open  a  demat  account  with  a  SEBI  registered  depository 

participant; 

iv.  Open  a  Special  Non-resident  Rupee  Account  (SNRA)  with  any 

AD-1 bank; 

v.  Open  a  trading  account  with  a  SEBI  registered  stock  broker/ 
trading  member,  and  obtain  a  Unique  Client  Code  (UCC)  with 
stock exchange(s); 

vi. 

Appoint  a  Tax  Consultant/  Chartered Accountant  for  computation 
of  taxes and  certification  that the  relevant  taxes have  been  paid.  

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 21 
 

 

 

FII  can  repatriate  back  any  amount  from  his  bank  account, 
provided all taxes have been paid on such amount. 

The custodian of securities generally assists the FII in opening all 
the  requisite  accounts.    The  custodian  of  securities  also  acts  as 
clearing  member  of  the  FII  and  performs  clearing  and settlement 
functions for its FII clients. 

 
vii. 

 

3.2.2. 

Non Resident Indian (NRI)/ Person of Indian Origin (PIO) 

As per RBI, Non Resident Indian (NRI) is defined as a person resident outside India 
who  is  citizen  of  India.  In  terms  of  Regulation  2  of  FEMA  Notification  No.13  dated 
May  3,  2000,  NRI  means a  person  resident outside  India  who  is a  citizen  of  India. 
PIO means a citizen of any country other than Bangladesh or Pakistan who had: 

 

At any time held Indian passport or  

i. 
ii.  He  or  either  of  his  parents  or  any  of  his  grandparents  was  a  citizen  of 

iii. 

India by virtue of the Constitution of India or the Citizenship Act, 1955 or  
The person is a spouse of an Indian citizen or a person referred to in (a) 
or (b). 
 

Investment  by  PIOs  in  Indian  Securities  is  treated  same  as  the  investment  by 
NRIs and requires same approvals and enjoys the same exemptions. 

 

3.2.2.1. 

Market Entry 

NRIs/PIOs  are eligible  to  purchase  and  sell  shares  /  convertible debentures 
of  Indian  Companies,  through  a  registered  broker  on  a  recognized  stock 
exchange  in  India,  if  they  have  been permitted by  the designated branch of 
any AD Category - I bank (which has been authorized by RBI to administer 
the PIS).   RBI issues permission to specific bank branches for starting PIS 
activities which are then termed as Designated Bank Branches (DBBs). 
 
NRIs/PIOs  are  required  to  approach  the  DBBs  to  register  under  PIS.    On 
behalf  of  RBI,  DBB  issues  PIS  approval  letter  to  the  NRI/PIOs.  The  Non 
Designated Bank Branches (NDBBs) are not permitted to open PIS accounts. 
Hence, if the customer approaches any of the NDBBs, the said Bank Branch 
can accept the application from the NRI customers and forward the same to 
the DBB to complete the formalities for PIS account opening. 

 
 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 22 
 

 

 

 

 

 

3.2.2.2. Account Structure 

To  invest  through  recognized  Stock  Exchange  in  India,  the  NRIs/PIOs  are 
permitted to open the following types of bank/demat accounts:  

i.  Non Resident External (NRE) PIS  Savings Bank  or Non-Resident 

is  opened  exclusively 

Ordinary (NRO) PIS savings bank account 
 
The  NRE  PIS  account 
for  making 
payments/receiving  amount  of  sale  proceeds  for  the  investments 
made  in  shares/convertible  debentures  on  repatriation  basis  in 
secondary  market.      Similarly,  the  NRO  PIS  account  is  opened 
exclusively for  making payments/  receiving  amount  of  sale  proceeds 
for  the  investments  made  in  shares  /convertible  debentures  on  non- 
repatriation basis in secondary market.  For opening NRE PIS / NRO 
PIS account, an NRI/PIO has to submit a RPI / NRI application form 
respectively  and  give  sufficient  details  of  investments  held  by  him 
along  with  other  legal  and  procedural  documents  required  by  the 
concerned Designated Bank Branch.  

ii.  NRE  Saving Bank account or NRO  Saving Bank account 

 
The  NRE  /  NRO  savings  bank  account  is  required  to  be  opened  for 
recovering bank charges and to route non PIS transactions. 

iii.  NRE or NRO  Demat Account 

 
The  demat  account  is  to  be  opened  with  any  DP  for  the  purpose  of 
trading  in  Shares.  NRI/PIO  can  open  a  demat  account  with  any 
Depository Participant (DP). The NRI/PIO needs to mention the type 
‘NRI’  as  compared  to  ‘Resident’  and  the  sub-type  ‘Repatriable’  or 
‘Non-Repatriable’ in the account opening form collected from the DP. 
An  NRI/PIO  must  open  separate  demat  accounts  for  holding 
‘repatriable’ and 'non-repatriable’ securities. No permission is required 
from RBI to open a demat account.  However, credits and debits from 
demat  account  may  require  general  or  specific  permissions  as  the 
case may be, from designated authorised dealers. 
 

3.2.2.3. Funding and Repatriation 

Payment for purchase of shares and/or debentures on repatriation basis has to be 
made  by  way  of  inward  remittance  of  foreign  exchange  through  normal  banking 
channels or out of funds held in NRE/FCNR (B) account maintained in India.   If the 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 23 
 

shares are purchased on non-repatriation basis, the NRIs/PIOs can also utilise their 
funds in NRO account in addition to the above. 

 
An  NRI/PIO  can  purchase  shares  in foreign  exchange  by funding  it  through  NRE 
Saving Bank Account.  On sale of such shares the sale proceeds amount can be 
freely repatriated, net of application taxes.  He can also purchase shares in rupees 
through  NRO  Saving  Bank  Account.      However,  sale  proceeds  amount  of  these 
shares cannot be freely repatriated out of India, subject to FEMA, 1999. 

 

3.2.2.4. Nature of Transactions Allowed 

NRIs  are  eligible  to  purchase  and  sell  shares  /  convertible  debentures  of  Indian 
Companies, through a registered broker on a recognized stock exchange in India. 
NRIs are eligible to purchase and sell Units of Mutual Funds. 

 

3.2.2.5. Nature of Transactions not covered under PIS  

Purchase and sale of shares otherwise than on recognized stock exchange in India 
come under this category: 
 

Shares acquired during Residential tenure, 
Initial Public Offer (IPO) shares, 
Shares received by way of Gift, 
Shares received by way of Inheritance, 
Acquisition and Sale of Bonus shares, 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 
vi.  Right Shares 
vii. 

Shares acquire under FDI.  
 

As per Schedule 3 (Regulation 5) of FEMA Act, 1999, NRIs have to take delivery of 
the  shares  /  convertible  debentures  purchased  and  give  delivery  of  the  shares  / 
convertible debentures sold under the PIS scheme within prescribed time frame.  
Therefore,  an  NRI  investor  can  execute  only  delivery  based  transactions  and 
cannot indulge in short selling, speculative, no delivery and other such transactions 
where delivery of shares is not undertaken. 

 

3.2.2.6. Other Investment Guidelines 

i. 

ii. 

Any NRI can have only one PIS account in India at a time.  
 
It  is  mandatory  to  comply  with  all  the  rules  and  regulations  prescribed  by 
RBI and other regulatory authorities for all the NRI investors. 

 

 

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 24 
 

 

 

 

 

 

iii. 

iv. 

Securities  received  by  NRI  against  investments  under  ‘Foreign  Direct 
Investment  scheme  (FDI)’, 
Investment  scheme  (PIS)’  and 
‘Scheme for Investment’ on non – repatriation basis have to be credited into 
separate demat accounts.  

‘Portfolio 

Investment  under  PIS  can  be  on  repatriation  or  non  –  repatriation  basis. 
However, investment under FDI scheme can only be on repatriation basis.  
 

3.2.2.7. Specified Limits of NRI Investments 

NRI investment on repatriation/non- repatriation basis is subject to ceilings as 
mentioned below- 

i.  NRIs  can  invest  through  designated  ADs,  on  repatriation  and  non-
repatriation basis under PIS route up to 5 per cent of the paid- up capital / 
paid-up value of each series of debentures of listed Indian companies.  
 
The aggregate paid up value of shares / convertible debentures purchased 
by  all  NRIs  cannot  exceed  10  per  cent  of  the  total  paid  up  capital  of  the 
company / paid up value of each series of debentures of the company.  

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

v. 

The  aggregate  ceiling  of  10  per  cent  can  be  raised  to  24  per  cent  by 
passing  a  resolution  of  its  Board  of  Directors  followed  by  a  special 
resolution to that effect by its General Body and should necessarily intimate 
the same to the Reserve Bank of India immediately as hitherto, along with a 
Certificate  from  the  Company  Secretary  stating  that  all  the  relevant 
provisions  of  the  extant  Foreign  Exchange  Management  Act,  1999 
regulations  and  the  Foreign  Direct  Policy,  as  amended  from  time  to  time, 
have been complied with.  

The Designated Bank Branches are required to keep track of NRI individual 
investment  limits  and  restrict  its  NRI  customers  from  acquiring  securities 
beyond the prescribed limits. 

The  shares  of  those  companies  listed  in  Banned  list  (i.e.  where  NRI 
shareholding  have  crossed  the  prescribed  limits)  should  not  be  further 
purchased by the NRIs at that point of time. However, the shares of those 
companies  listed  in  Caution  list  (i.e.  whose  NRI  shareholding  limits  has 
reached  2%  below  the  ceiling  limit)  can  further  be  purchased  only  by 
obtaining prior approval from RBI. 

 

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 25 
 

 

 

 

 

3.2.2.8. Reporting of NRI investments under PIS scheme 

The link office of the designated branch of an AD Category – I bank furnishes to the 
Reserve  Bank,  a  report on  a daily basis  on  PIS transactions undertaken by  it,  on 
behalf of  NRIs.  It  is  the  bank’s  responsibility  to ensure  that the  data  submitted  to 
RBI is reconciled by periodically taking a NRI holding report for their bank. 

 

3.2.3. 

Qualified Foreign Investors (QFIs) 

QFI scheme was introduced by Government of India (GoI) during the year 2011, in 
consultation with SEBI and RBI, to permit foreign investors to invest in Indian equity 
shares, equity and debt schemes of Indian mutual fund and corporate debt in order 
to  widen  the  class  of  investors,  attract  more  foreign  funds,  reduce  market  volatility 
and to deepen the Indian capital markets. 

 

3.2.3.1. Eligibility  

QFIs  include  individuals,  groups  or  associations,  resident  in  a  country  that  is  a 
member of Financial Action Task Force (FATF) or a country that is a member of a 
group which is a member of FATF and resident in a country that is a signatory to 
International  Organization  of  Securities  Commission’s  (IOSCO)  Multilateral 
Memorandum  of  Understanding  (MMOU)  (Appendix  A  Signatories)  or  a  signatory 
of  a  bilateral  MOU  with  SEBI.  QFIs  do  not  include  FIIs/Sub  accounts/  Foreign 
Venture Capital Investor.  
 

3.2.3.2. Account Opening  

i.  QFIs are required to open a demat account with any one of the SEBI 
approved  qualified  Depository  Participant  (QDP).  QDP  are  also 
required  
carry  necessary  due  diligence  and  obtain 
appropriate declarations and  
undertakings  from  QFI  in  terms  of 
extant framework.  
 

to  

ii.  QFIs  are  required  to  open  a  single  non-interest  bearing  Rupee 
Account  with  an  AD  Category-  I  bank  in  India,  for  routing  the  receipt 
and payment for transactions relating to purchase and sale of eligible 
securities subject to the conditions as may be prescribed by RBI from 
time to time.  
A  QFI  can  open  trading  accounts  with  one  or  more  SEBI  registered 
stock brokers. 
 

iii. 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 26 
 

3.2.3.3. Eligibility of QDP 

The eligibility criteria to act as qualified Depository Participants are as 
follows: 

i.  DP shall have net worth of Rs. 50 crore or more; 

 

ii.  DP  shall  be  either  a  clearing  bank  or  clearing  member  of  any  of  the 

clearing corporations; 

iii.  DP shall have appropriate arrangements for receipt and remittance of 

money with a designated Authorised Dealer (AD) Category - I bank; 

iv.  DP  shall  demonstrate  that  it  has  systems  and  procedures  to  comply 
with the FATF Standards, Prevention of Money Laundering (PML) Act, 
Rules and SEBI circulars issued from time to time; and 

v.  DP  shall  obtain  prior  approval  of  SEBI  before  commencing  the 

activities relating to opening of accounts of QFI. 

3.2.3.4. Permitted Investments 

A QFI can make investments in the following: 

Equity and debt schemes of Indian mutual funds,  
Equity shares listed on recognized stock exchanges,  
Equity shares offered through public offers and  

i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv.  Corporate bonds listed/to be listed on recognized stock exchanges. 
v.  G-Sec and T-Bills 
vi.  Commercial Paper  

 

3.2.3.5. Investment Limits 

i. 

ii. 

 The aggregate investments by QFIs in units of mutual fund schemes 
shall  be  subject  to  a  total  overall  ceiling  of  US  $10  billion  for  equity 
schemes.  
 
Total shareholding held by a QFI shall not exceed five percent of paid 
up equity capital of the company at any point of time.  This investment 
limit shall be applicable to each class of equity shares having separate 
and distinct ISIN. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 27 
 

iii. 

that aggregate shareholding of all QFIs shall not exceed ten percent of 
the  paid  up  equity  capital  of  the    company  at  any  point  of  time,  in 
respect of each equity share class having separate and distinct ISIN.   

3.2.4. 

Foreign Venture Capital Investors (FVCI) 

 

Another  route  in  which  foreign  investment  is  channelized  into  India  is  through 
investment by foreign venture capital investors.  In terms of SEBI (Foreign Venture 
Capital  Investors)  Regulation,  2000  "foreign  venture  capital  investor"  means  an 
India,  registered  under  these 
investor 
Regulations  and  proposes 
these 
Regulations.  

incorporated  and  established  outside 

in  accordance  with 

to  make 

investment 

 

 

 

3.2.4.1. Registration 

i. 

ii. 

To  seek  registration  under  these  regulations,  FVCI  entity  shall  make  an 
application  to  SEBI  in  requisite  Form  along  with  the  application  fees  of 
USD 2,500 and registration fees of USD 10,000. 
SEBI  on  verification  of  documents,  considering  eligibility  conditions  and 
seeking clarification / information from the Applicant as it may deem fit, is 
satisfied that applicant is eligible, it may grant certificate of registration. 

3.2.4.2. Eligibility criteria 

For  the  purpose  of  grant  of  certificate  to  an  applicant  as  a  FVCI,  SEBI  broadly 
considers the following eligibility criteria: 

i. 

The  applicant  record,  professional  competence,  financial  soundness, 
experience, general reputation of fairness and integrity etc. 
 

ii.  Whether  the  applicant  has  been  granted  necessary  approval  by  the 

Reserve Bank of India for making investments in India. 

iii. 

Status  of  the  applicant    i.e.  whether  the  applicant  is  an  investment 
company, investment trust, investment partnership, pension fund, mutual 
fund,  endowment  fund,  university  fund,  charitable  institution,  investment 
management  company,  asset  management  company  or  an  investment 
vehicle / any other entity incorporated outside India. 

iv.  Whether  the  applicant  is  authorized  to  invest  in  venture  capital  fund  or 

carry on activity as a foreign venture capital investor 

v.  Whether  the  applicant  is  regulated  by  an  appropriate  foreign  regulatory 

authority or is an income-tax payer. 
 

vi.  Whether applicant earlier has been refused registration as FVCI by SEBI 

and whether applicant is a fit and proper person. 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 28 
 

 

 

 

 

3.2.4.3. Investment Conditions and Restrictions 

i. 

ii. 

FVCI shall disclose to SEBI its investment strategy 
 
FVCI  can  invest  its  total  funds  committed  in  one  VCF.  There  is  no  limit 
prescribed  with  respect  to  investment  in  a  single  VCU  in  the  FVCI 
regulations.  

iii. 

At least 66.67 per cent of the investible funds shall be invested in unlisted 
equity shares or equity linked instruments of VCU.  

iv.  Not more than 33.33 per cent of the investible funds may be invested in : 

a.  Subscription  to  initial  public  offer  of  a  VCU  whose  shares  are 

proposed to be listed. 

b.  Debt or debt instrument of a VCU in which FVCI has already made an 

investment by way of equity. 

c.  Preferential allotment of equity shares of a listed company subject to 

lock-in period of one year. 

d.  Equity  shares  or  equity  linked  instruments  of  a  financially  weak 

company or a sick industrial company whose shares are listed. 

e.  Special  purpose  vehicles  which  are  created  for  the  purpose  of 
these 

in  accordance  with 

facilitating  or  promoting 
Regulations. 

investment 

v. 

FVCI shall disclose the duration of life cycle of the fund. 
 
 

3.2.4.4. Other Conditions 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

FVCI  shall  appoint  a  domestic  custodian  for  the  purpose  of  custody  of 
securities. 
 
FVCI  shall  enter  in  to  an  arrangement  with  a  designated  bank  for  the 
purpose  of  operating  a  special  non-resident  rupee  or  foreign  currency 
account. 
FVCI  shall  forthwith  inform  the  SEBI  in  writing  if  any  information  or 
particular  previously  submitted  to  the  SEBI  are  found  to  be  false  or 
misleading  in  any  material  particular  or  if  there  is  any  change  in  the 
information already submitted. 
 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 29 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

iv. 

FVCI shall maintain for a period of eight years books of account, records 
and  documents  which  shall  give  a  true  and  fair  picture  of  the  state  of 
affairs of the FVCI. 

v. 

FVCI shall submit reports on periodic basis or whenever the information is 
called by the SEBI. 

3.2.4.5. Advantages of FVCI registration 

i.  No Pricing guidelines 

 
RBI  pricing  norms  for  acquisition  and  disposition  of  investment  are  not 
applicable  to  an  FVCI,  thereby  giving  the  flexibility  to  undertake 
transaction  at  a  price  mutually  agreed  between  buyer  and  seller.    This 
could  be beneficial for undertaking  mezzanine  transactions  which  intend 
to provide an agreed return. 

ii.  No Post IPO lock-in 

 
As  per  the  SEBI  (ICDR)  Regulations,  2009;  the  entire  pre-issue  capital 
(except  promoters  shareholding  where different  lock-in  requirements  are 
applicable)  gets  locked  in  for  a  period  of  one  year  from  the  date  of 
allotment.  However, the aforesaid lock-in restrictions do not apply to pre-
issue  shares  held  by  an  FVCI  or  a  VCF,  provided  the  shares  are  held 
atleast for a period of one year as on the date of filing the draft red herring 
prospectus with SEBI. 

iii.  QIB status 

 
Under  the  SEBI  (ICDR)  Regulations,  2009,  FVCI  are  considered  as  a 
Qualified  Institutional  Buyer  (QIB)  and  therefore,  they  are  eligible  to 
participate in Qualified Institutional Placement (QIP) process. 

iv.  No Takeover Code implications on transfer to promoters 

 
As  per  the  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers) 
Regulations  2011,  acquisition  of  25%  or  more  of  the  shares  or  voting 
rights  of  company  listed  on  any  stock  exchange,  would  trigger  the 
obligation  to  make  an  open  offer  and  accordingly  the  acquirer  has  to 
make  a  public  announcement  to  acquire  minimum  26%  of  the  voting 
capital  of  the  company.    However,  the  provisions  of  the  SEBI  Takeover 
Code,  does  not  apply  to  transfer  of  shares  from  FVCI  registered  with 
SEBI to promoters of VCU’s pursuant to an agreement.   

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 30 
 

3.2.4.6. Investment only in specified sectors 

 

In  the  recent past,  SEBI/RBI  has  been  granting sector  specific  approvals  (refer 
below  for  sectors)  at  the  time  of  FVCI  registration.  In  case  of  investments  in 
sectors other than sectors specified in the approval, investment would need to be 
made through FDI route. Following sectors have been specified in the approval: 

i.  Nanotechnology; 

ii. 

Information technology relating to hardware and software development; 

iii. 

iv. 

Seed research and development; 

Bio-technology; 

v.  Research  and  development  of  new  chemical  entities 

in 

the 

pharmaceutical sector; 

vi. 

Production of bio-fuels;  

vii. 

viii. 

Building  and  operating  composite  hotel-cum-convention  centre  with 
seating capacity of more than three thousand;  

Infrastructure sector – includes activities included within the scope of the 
definition of infrastructure under ECB guidelines; 

Infrastructure  sector  under  ECB  guidelines  is  defined  as  (i) power, 
(ii) telecommunication,  (iii) railways,  (iv) road  including  bridges,  (v) sea 
port  and  airport,  (vi) industrial  parks,  (vii) urban  infrastructure  (water 
supply,  sanitation  and  sewage  projects)  (viii)  mining,  refining  and 
exploration  and  (ix)  cold  storage  or  cold  room facility,  including for farm 
level  pre-cooling,  for  preservation  or  storage  of  agricultural  and  allied 
produce, marine products and meat  

ix. 

Engaged in the dairy industry or poultry industry 

 

A summary of the regulatory requirements and investment guidelines of the existing foreign 
investment routes as described in this chapter is annexed as Annexure I. 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 31 
 

4. Rationale for Integrated Policy on Foreign Investments 
 
Foreign  investment  in  India  is  characterized  by  multiple  routes  and  various  regulators 
overseeing  these  routes,  overlapping  policies,  complicated  tax  structures,  and  high  cost  of 
transactions  leading to  inconsistencies,  reduced transparency and  higher  capital  costs.  These 
impediments  translate  into  higher  cost  of  capital  for  Indian  companies  who  are  accessing 
foreign equity capital. 

 

An integrated policy on foreign investments would reduce the overall complexity and number of 
regulations governing inbound investments.  By integrating the existing portfolio routes available 
for  foreign  investors,  an  attempt  can  be  made  to  remove  some  impediments.    This  will  also 
facilitate India being comparable to countries like Brazil, South Korea, etc. 
 
However,  it  is  suggested  that  a  level  of  segregation  across  foreign  portfolio  investors,  in  the 
areas such as investment restrictions and application of KYC norms is necessary for ensuring 
adequate  regulatory  control  on  various forms  of foreign  investment  and  regulating  end  use  of 
capital in line with economic and regulatory objectives. 

 

It is suggested to put in place a harmonized model, designed to provide an unified market entry 
process  for  all  foreign  portfolio  investors.  While  the  harmonized  /  common  foreign  investor 
approach  has  merits,  the  ability  of  regulatory  authorities  to  control  investments  from  various 
kinds on investors must be maintained.  Accordingly, it is suggested to maintain a single foreign 
portfolio investor category with common market entry, limit monitoring and reporting norms.  

 

The harmonized model would achieve the following twin objectives –  

 

i. 

Provide a unified market entry for foreign portfolio investors, and 
 

ii.  Retain  the  ability  of  government/regulatory  authorities  to  incentivize  or  restrict 

end use of foreign capital. 

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 32 
 

5. A Harmonized Foreign Investment Model 

 

 

5.1. Features of the Harmonized Model 

 

The existing foreign  investor  routes  under  portfolio  investment  scheme  have  been  created  
for specific purposes as follows: 

i. 

FII  route,  which  includes  FIIs  and  Sub  accounts,  enables  foreign  portfolio 
investments into Indian capital markets. 

 

ii.  QFI is a foreign investor category where investors can directly open an account 

with a Qualified Depository Participant (QDP) in India. 
 

iii.  NRI  is  a  dedicated  route for a  person  resident  outside  India  who  is a  citizen of 

India (includes PIO).  
 
FVCI allows foreign investors to make venture capital investments in India.  FVCI 
investments are allowed in unlisted/to be listed companies. 

iv. 

 

Each  of  the  above  routes  has  a  different  set  of  regulations  governing  such  investments 
giving  government/regulatory  authorities  the  ability  to  monitor  and  direct  flow  of  foreign 
investment from different categories of investors to specific sectors / areas in the economy.  

While the proposal to have harmonized/common route for foreign investors has merits, the 
ability of government/regulatory authorities to monitor foreign investments from various kinds 
of  investors  must  be  maintained.  Accordingly,  it  is  suggested  to  have  a  single  foreign 
investor  category  where  there  would  be  common  norms  for  market entry,  limit  monitoring, 
and  reporting.  However,  it  may  be  considered  to  have  segregations  of  investor  classes 
along the lines of portfolio and direct, to enable government/regulatory authorities to make 
investment guidelines and impose restrictions for different investor classes.  
 
The  Committee  recommended  to  merge  FII,  Sub  Account  and  QFI  into  the  proposed 
Foreign Portfolio Investor (FPI) regime.   
 
The  Committee  felt  that  NRIs/PIOs  presently  have  a  liberal  route  for  accessing  securities 
market.  NRIs/PIOs should continue to be viewed as a distinct market participant enjoying 
certain privileges in terms of investment permissions not available to other foreign investors.   
Accordingly, the Committee recommended to retain NRIs as a separate investor class with 
the same limits as currently applicable. 
 
The Committee felt that FVCI route has certain benefits such as non applicability of pricing 
norms and relaxation from post IPO lock in requirement. These benefits have been given to 
FVCI  route  to  promote  Venture  Capital  Investments.      Accordingly,  the  Committee 
recommended  that  the  FVCI  as  an  investor  class  would  continue.      Additionally,  the 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 33 
 

Committee recommended that the current FVCI regime should be expanded to include more 
sectors under its ambit as against the currently prescribed 9 sectors. Alternately a negative 
list may be announced by GoI so that rest of the sectors are opened for VCF activity.  
 
Further,  currently  FVCIs  can  invest  in  VCFs  under  the  erstwhile  VCF  Regulations  as  per 
FEMA  Regulations  and  FDI  policy.    Further,  FDI  is  allowed  in  VCFs  set  up  as  trusts  on 
approval  of  FIPB.    Pursuant  to  repeal  of  VCF  Regulations  and  notification  of  Alternate 
Investment Funds (AIF) Regulations, necessary changes are required to be made to the FDI 
policy  and  FEMA  Regulations  to  enable  foreign  investment  through  FVCI  and  FDI  routes 
into  AIFs  under  the  AIF  Regulations.    The  Committee  recommends  that  FDI  policy  and 
FEMA Regulations be suitable amended to enable foreign investment through FVCI and FDI 
route in SEBI registered AIFs.  
 
The  table  at  Annexure  II  depicts  the  existing  foreign  investment  structure  against  various 
parameters, and the proposed harmonized route for the same parameters.  

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 34 
 

5.1.1. 

Foreign Portfolio Investor (FPI) 

The Committee agreed with the recommendation to merge FII, Sub Account and QFI 
into a new investor class to be termed as “Foreign Portfolio Investor” (FPI).   It was 
felt  by  committee  members  that  the  term  “Qualified  Foreign  Investor”  (QFI)  may 
cause confusion as there is already an investment route under PIS termed as QFI, 
the framework for which was initially put in place in August 2011.   

5.1.2. 

Simplification of entry norms for FIIs, Sub Accounts, and QFIs 

The committee recommended that there would not be direct registration with SEBI. 
Instead, DDPs authorized by SEBI would register FPIs on behalf of SEBI subject to 
compliance  with  KYC  requirements.    The  FPI  that  meet  the  prescribed  eligibility 
criteria  shall  directly  approach  Designated  Depository  Participants  (DDPs), 
authorised  by  SEBI.    The  DDPs  shall  perform  due  diligence  and  KYC,  before 
registering FPI, on behalf of SEBI and allowing such entities to make investment in 
permitted securities.  

5.1.3. 

Uniform entry norms for FPI 

The FPI shall be defined as: 

(i) Resident in a country whose securities market regulator is a signatory to IOSCO’s 
MMOU (Appendix A Signatories) or a signatory of a bilateral MOU with SEBI 

OR 

(ii) In case of Bank, resident of a country whose central bank is a member of BIS   

Provided that the person is not resident in a country listed in the public statements 
issued by FATF from time to time on-(a) jurisdictions having a strategic Anti-Money 
Laundering/ Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) deficiencies to which 
counter  measures  apply,  (b)  jurisdictions  that  have  not  made  sufficient  progress  in 
addressing the deficiencies or have not committed to an action plan developed with 
the FATF to address the deficiencies: 

Provided further such person is not resident in India: 

Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause: 

The term “person” shall carry same meaning under Section 2 (31)  of the Income Tax 
Act, 1961; 

 The phrase “resident in India” shall carry the same meaning as in the Income Tax 
Act, 1961; 

 “Bilateral  MoU  with  SEBI”  shall  mean  a  bilateral  MoU  between  SEBI  and  the 
overseas regulator that inter alia provides for information sharing arrangements. 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 35 
 

All entities registered with SEBI as FIIs, Sub-accounts, and QFIs as on the effective 
date, shall be deemed to be FPIs. 

A list of eligible jurisdictions for FPIs and a list of countries which are declared “High-
risk and non-cooperative jurisdictions” by FATF are annexed at Annexures IV and V 
respectively. 

5.1.4. 

Categorization of FDI and Portfolio investment 

The Hon’ble Finance Minister while presenting the Union Budget for the year 2013-
14, inter-alia proposed to follow the international practice of categorizing FDI and FII, 
where an investor has a stake of 10 percent or less in a company, it will be treated 
as FII and, where an investor has a stake of more than 10 percent, it will be treated 
as FDI.   
 
To examine the feasibility of adopting above principle GoI, has constituted constitute 
a separate committee namely “Committee for Rationalizing the Definition of FDI and 
FII”, which would examine and work out the details of the application of the principle 
internationally for defining FDI and FII. 

The Committee recommended the following with respect to categorization of foreign 
investment: 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

Portfolio investments to be defined as investments by any single investor 
or  investor  group,  which  shall  not  exceed  10  percent  of  the  equity 
securities including the future conversion of existing convertible securities 
such  as  Compulsorily  Convertible  Debentures  (CCD)  Compulsorily 
Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS) of Indian company.  

Portfolio investment shall be permitted only in listed equity securities.  For 
this  purpose,  listed  equity  securities  would  also  include  participation  by 
FPIs  in  issues  such  as  Initial  Public  Offer,  Qualified  Institutional 
Placement,  Institutional Placement Programme etc.  of  Indian  companies 
as  well  as  tendering  shares  in  an  open  offer  or  buyback  announced  in 
relation to shares of listed Indian companies. 

The  prevailing  practice  where  private  placement  may  be  through  either 
FPI  or  FDI  route  depending  on  the  nature  of  the  transaction  may  be 
continued, even when such private placement results in a foreign investor 
holding less than 10 per cent. 
 
In  case  of  unlisted  company,  the  private  placement  shall  be  under  FDI 
route.   

 

 

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 36 
 

v. 

vi. 

In  circumstances,  where  the  listing  does  not  take  place  within  the 
stipulated timeframe, such foreign investments shall be re-categorized as 
FDI. 
 
Investments  in  unlisted  securities,  regardless  of  the  level  of  ownership 
that they represent, shall be regarded as FDI. 
  

vii.  Where there is an FDI investor, all equity holdings of such an investor in 
the  concerned  company,  regardless  of the  manner  in  which  such  equity 
holdings have been acquired, should be classified as FDI. 

viii.  Where  an  investor  initially  acquires  less  than  10  percent  of  the  voting 
equity  of  an  Indian  company  and  thereafter  acquires  additional  equity 
which takes the investor’s aggregate holding to over 10 percent, in such a 
scenario, all of the investor’s holdings should be classified as FDI. 

ix.  Where an investor has FDI holdings in excess of 10 percent of the voting 
equity  of  a  company  should  retain  its  FDI  classification  even  if  the 
investor were to dilute his holding to a level below 10 percent of the voting 
equity of the company. 

x. 

Investment classification and tracking could be accomplished through the 
DDPs. 

 

 

 

 

                    The  above  recommendations  of  the  Committee  will  be  provided  to  a  separate 
committee constituted by the GoI namely “Committee for Rationalizing the Definition 
of FDI and FII”.  

 

5.1.5. 

Risk Based Approach towards KYC 

Keeping in view the global practice mainly prevailing in FATF countries, the budget 
announcement  and  the  feedback  received  from  market  participants,  the  committee 
recommended for adoption of risk based approach towards KYC where government 
related FPIs would be subject to less stringent KYC norms and unregulated investors 
would  have  to  undergo  stringent KYC  norms.  SEBI  would  separately prescribe  the 
documentation needed for the three categories. 

From  the  point  of  view  of  KYC,  the  committee  recommended  for  following 
categorization of FPIs based on their perceived risk profile: 
 

 

 

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 37 
 

Category  Eligible Foreign Investors 

I 

II 

III 

Funds, 

Central 

Government 
and  Government 
related  foreign  investors  such  as 
Foreign 
Banks, 
Governmental  Agencies,  Sovereign 
Wealth 
International/ 
Multilateral Organizations/ Agencies  
*Appropriately  regulated  broad 
a) 
based  funds  such  as  Mutual 
Funds, 
Trusts, 
Insurance/Reinsurance 
Companies, Other Broad Based 
Funds etc. 

Investment 

 
b) 

as 

Banks, 

*Appropriately regulated entities 
Asset 
such 
Management 
Companies, 
Investment Managers/ Advisors, 
Portfolio Managers etc.  

 
c)  Broad  based 

funds  whose 
is 

manager 

investment 
appropriately regulated 

Perceived Risk Profile 
 
Low Risk 
 
As 
these  entities  are  either 
owned/  controlled  by  respective 
government  they  are  perceived 
to be low risk entities.  
Moderate Risk 
 
these  entities  are 
Generally, 
investment 
either 
vehicles  or 
that 
manage  portfolios  of  pooled 
vehicles.    Since  these  entities 
are  appropriately  regulated  in 
their 
home 
jurisdictions  or  corpus  of  the 
retirement 
fund 
benefits  of 
the  employees/ 
academic  research  etc.,  these 
are  perceived  to  be  moderate 
risk entities 

institutions 

respective 

for  post 

pooled 

is 

 
d)  University  Funds  and  Pension 

Funds 

 
e)  University  related  Endowments 
already registered with SEBI as 
FII/Sub Account 

II 

I  and 

All  other  FPIs  not  eligible  under 
Category 
such  as 
Endowments,  Charitable  Societies/ 
Trust, 
Corporate 
Bodies,  Trusts,  Individuals,  Family 
Offices, etc.  
 

Foundations, 

High Risk 
 
Generally, these entities are not 
regulated 
respective 
home jurisdictions, these entities 
are  perceived  as  high 
risk 
entities. 

their 

in 

*Appropriately  Regulated  is  meant  to  include  relevance  of  activity  i.e.  securities  market 
regulations in case of an entity related to investment segment, capital market activities; and 
the Banking Regulations in case of a banking entity.  

The  detailed  recommendations  as  regards  to  KYC  documentary  requirements  are 
described in the Annexure III. 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 38 
 

5.1.5.1. 

Categorization of Un-regulated Broad Based Funds 

 

Presently a large proportion of FII investments come through Broad based funds, 
which are unincorporated entities. These funds are floated in foreign jurisdiction 
as  per  the  terms  of placement  memorandum  (PM)  issued for  each fund  by  the 
fund manager. The PM is normally filed with the regulator in the home jurisdiction 
of  the fund  / fund  manager.  In  most  such  cases,  the fund  manager  chooses  to 
get registered with SEBI as FII while the funds are registered as SA of the FII. In 
a few instances, the funds are themselves registered with SEBI as FII.  

 

The committee recommended that if the Investment Manager of the investment 
fund  falls  under  Category-II,  broad  based  funds  managed  by  such  Investment 
Managers  should  also  be  categorized  in  the  same  category  of  its  Investment 
Manager for the following reasons:   

 

i. 

Presently, a large proportion of the foreign portfolio investment comes 
through  broad  based  funds  which  are  registered  by  SEBI  as  sub 
accounts. Such sub-accounts may not necessarily be regulated in its 
home jurisdiction. Therefore, in the proposed FPI regime, such broad 
based funds would fall under Category-III and thus would be put in a 
worse  off  position  than  of  present.  This  may  not  be  a  desirable 
scenario.  

 

ii. 

Presently, these sub accounts are under FIIs, which are appropriately 
regulated in their home jurisdictions.  
 

This approach, of classifying the underlying unregulated fund vehicle as Category-
II  (under  an  Investment  Manager  who  is  Category-II),  will  be  subject  to  the 
following two conditions – 

 

 

a.  Submission  of  undertaking  by 

Investment  Manager 
regarding  full  responsibility  for  the  actions  of  the  underlying 
fund vehicle (on same lines as the extant FII undertaking for its 
sub-accounts), and  
 

the 

b.  Fulfillment of the broad-based criteria, as prescribed in existing 

SEBI (FII) Regulations, 1995, for the underlying fund vehicle.  

Those funds which do not meet the broad based criteria, as prescribed by SEBI 
(FII) Regulations, 1995, would fall in Category-III.   
 
 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 39 
 

 

 

5.1.6. 

Other KYC Recommendations 

5.1.6.1. 

Amendments to PML Rules   

It is recognized by the Committee that provisions of the PMLA, especially Rule 9 
will  need  to  be  amended  in  order  to  give  full  legal  effect  to  the  changes  being 
suggested to the KYC norms.  The suggested approach is to allow intermediaries 
to  adopt  risk  based  documentation  rules,  as  the  PMLA  permits  risk  based 
treatment. 
  
The sub-committee on KYC also met officials of Department of Revenue (DoR), 
MoF  to  suggest  necessary  amendments  to  PML  Rules  including  the  issue  of 
placing reliance on Global Custodian/Banks.  The suggestions made by the Sub 
Committee on proposed amendments to PML (Maintenance of Records) Rules, 
2005 is annexed at Annexure VI. 
 

5.1.6.2. 

Amendments to PAN cum KYC Form No. 49AA issued by 

Central   Board of Direct Taxes.  

 
The  committee  recommended  that  Central  Board  of  Direct  Taxes  (CBDT)  may 
consider  carrying out  necessary amendments  to PAN  cum  KYC  Form 49AA  so 
as to make the list of authorities, who can attest the documents, to be consistent 
with SEBI circular no. MIRSD/SE/Cir-21/2011 dated October 5, 2011.   
 

5.1.6.3. 

 Reliance on Global Custodian/Banks 

i. 

ii. 

It is a well established fact that a significant majority of foreign investors in 
India come via Global custodians (GCs)/Banks.  A large number of foreign 
investments in India, especially through the Portfolio Investment Scheme, 
operate  through  authorized  agent  institutions  such  as  GCs.    Foreign 
Institutional  Investors  (FIIs)  and  Sub-accounts  (End  clients)  appoint  such 
GCs and typically execute a Power Of Attorney authorizing the GC to act 
on  their  behalf  for  operating  their  accounts  in  India.  The  GCs  in  turn 
appoint local custodians  in India for such End Clients  and operate all the 
accounts  on  behalf  of  the  End  Clients  (FII/sub-account/  QFI),  based  on 
instructions  received    from  them.  The  GCs/Banks  are  typically  large 
international  banks,  subject  to  laws  and  regulations  in  their  home 
jurisdictions  as  well  as  the  laws  and  regulations  in  the  countries  where 
they  conduct business.  A  contractual  relationship  exists  between  the  GC 
and the local custodian.  
 
The  GCs/Banks  are  generally  incorporated  in  countries  that  adopt  FATF 
standards  and  are  signatories  to  IOSCO  MMoU.  The  GCs/Banks  are 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 40 
 

iii. 

iv. 

therefore  generally  subject  to  KYC  and  AML  related  regulations  of  a 
reasonably  high  standard,  typically  requiring  a  customer  identification 
program and appropriate due diligence practices.  
 
Where  feasible,  a  risk  based  approach  is  considered  for  lower  risk 
customers  as  an  acceptable  practice  in  these  countries,  subject  to  local 
regulatory  norms  permitting  the  same.  Further,  the  End  Clients  that form 
the GCs/Banks customer base are primarily institutional investors who are 
themselves  regulated  and  may  therefore  generally  be  considered  as  low 
risk.  
 
The  Indian  intermediary  may  be  permitted  to  rely  on  GCs/Banks  which 
may furnish  a  declaration/comfort  letter  stating necessary  FATF  standard 
due diligence procedures (AML & KYC related) have been followed at their 
end  while  on  boarding  the  investor  and  are  updated  as  per  the  country 
requirements. 

5.1.6.4. 

Risk Assessment 

It is also recommended to issue guiding principles on risk profiling – low, medium 
or high risk categorization – so that from a market perspective all intermediaries 
are able to use objective market-standard criteria for risk classification. 
 

5.1.6.5. 

Updation of KYC documents  

For updation, it is recommended to  follow a 2 year/ 5 year rule based on the risk 
classification of the investor as per above i.e. 2 years for non low risk investors 
and 5 years for low risk investors.  For the purpose of achieving updation, risk 
category of the investor will be re-evaluated and the necessary documents will 
be  refreshed  depending  upon  investor’s  risk  category.  In  case  the  FPIs  under 
consideration  are  sourced 
through  Global  Custodian/Banks,  necessary 
declarations 
the  Global  Custodian/Banks  will  be  refreshed.  Risk 
categorization of the investors will also need to be re-affirmed at this stage. 

from 

5.1.6.6. 

Continuous assessment of risk profile of FPIs 

i.  The  committee  was  of  the  view  that  the  FPIs  would  be  subject  to  KYC 
review as and when there is any change in material information/disclosure.  
In  a  circumstance  where  change  in  information  results  in  change  of 
category, the FPI would have to undergo KYC compliance as prescribed for 
the category to which it now belongs. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 41 
 

ii. 

In addition to the above, it was also recommended that all FPIs would also 
be subject to KYC review every two years. 

5.1.6.7. 

Requirement of Personal Identification documents for KYC 

 

The requirement of submitting personal identification documents such as copy of 
passport,  photograph  etc.  of  the  designated  officials  of  FPIs  belonging  to 
Category I and Category II shall be done away with. 

5.1.7. 

Account Structure 

i. 

ii. 

Each  FPI  will  be  allowed  to  open  one  demat  account  for  FPI 
investments. 

 Each  FPI  will  be  permitted  to open  bank  account  (s)  as  per  RBI 
norms  (non-interest  bearing  rupee  account  and  foreign  currency 
bank  account).  The  bank  accounts  must  be  maintained  with  a 
DDP which is an Authorized Dealer Category 1 bank.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 42 
 

6. Roadmap for Integration 
 

6.1. Operational Requirements 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6.1.1. 

Role of Designated Depositary Participant (DDP) 

It  will  be  mandatory  for  FPI  to  appoint  a  DDP.    The  DDP  would  perform  due 
diligence and KYC of FPIs as per the stipulated norms. 
 
It is suggested that the DDP shall meet the following eligibility criteria in order to 
service FPIs.  
 

i.  DDP to be a Custodian registered with SEBI. 

 

ii.  DDP to be an Authorised Dealer category 1 bank as per RBI. 

iii.  DDP to be a Depository Participant registered with SEBI. 

iv.  DDP  to  have  multinational  presence  either  through  its  branches  or 
through  agency  relationships  with  intermediaries  regulated  in  their 
respected home jurisdictions.   

v.  DDP  to demonstrate that  it  has  systems  and procedures  to  comply  with 
the FATF Standards, Prevention of Money Laundering (PML) Act, Rules 
and SEBI circulars issued from time to time; and 

vi.  DDP  to  obtain  prior  approval  of  SEBI  before  commencing  the  activities 

relating to opening of accounts of FPIs. 
 

Based on  the experience gathered,  the  eligibility  criteria for  registration of  DDP 
may be later reviewed by SEBI.  

6.1.2. 

Grandfathering Arrangements 

i. 

Presently, the  volume  of  assets held under  the  custody  of  custodians  is 
much greater than the volume of assets held by QFI through QDPs. 

ii. 

The present entry norms for QDPs are not stringent. 

 

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 43 
 

iii.  Out  of  the  59  QDPs  approved  by  SEBI,  only  six  QDPs  have  QFI 

investments.  Out of these six QDPs, three are also custodians. 
 
To avoid business discontinuity, it is recommended to grandfather all the 
entities  which  are  presently  registered  with  SEBI  as  custodian  of 
securities, as DDPs.  The existing QDPs authorised by SEBI currently not 
meeting the proposed eligibility criteria may be allowed further time period 
of one year to comply with the proposed eligibility requirement of a DDP.  
Subsequently, if such QDPs fail to comply with the same, then they may 
be required to surrender the authorization.  
  
It  is  recommended  that  all  existing  investments  held  by  the  foreign 
investors  acquired  through  either  FDI  route  and/or  PIS  route  shall  be 
grandfathered.  
 
It  is  recommended  that  all  existing  entities  registered  with  SEBI  as  FII, 
sub-account,  and  QFIs  as  on  the  effective  date,  shall  be  deemed  to  be 
FPIs.  

iv. 

v. 

vi. 

 

6.1.3. 

Obligations of DDPs 

 

i. 

ii. 

iii. 

iv. 

The  entities  having opaque  structure(s)  such that  the details of  ultimate/ 
end beneficiary owners are not accessible or where the beneficial owners 
are  ring fenced from  each  other  or  where  the  beneficial  owners are  ring 
fenced with regard to enforcement shall not be allowed. 
 
In case, the same set of ultimate/ end beneficial owner(s) invest through 
multiple  entities,  such  entities  shall  be  treated  as  a  part  of  same  group 
and  the  investment  limits  of  all  such  entities  shall  be  clubbed  at  the 
investment  limit  as  applicable  to  single  investor.    For  this  purpose,  the 
FPIs  should  consider  all  such  entities  having  direct  or  indirect  common 
shareholding/ beneficial ownership/ beneficial interest of more than 50%, 
as a part of their group.  The DDP shall ensure at the time of on boarding 
the  foreign  portfolio  investor  whether  such  investor  forms  a  part  of  any 
group. 
 
In case of any direct/ indirect change in structure or beneficial ownership 
of  the  FPIs,  it  shall  bring  the  same  to  the  notice  of  its  DDP  forthwith.   
 
The investor shall, as and when required by the Government, SEBI or any 
other  regulatory  agency  in  India,  submit  any  information,  record  or 
documents in relation to his activities as a FPIs. An express undertaking 
to this effect shall be obtained by DDP from the FPIs. 
 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 44 
 

 

 

 

 

v. 

vi. 

vii. 

viii. 

The  DDP  shall  ensure  that  equity  shares  held  by  FPIs  are  free  from  all 
encumbrances including pledge or lien etc. at all times. 

The  DDP  shall  require  FPI  to  submit  necessary  information  for  the 
purpose of obtaining PAN. 
 
The DDP shall ensure that all the investor related documents/ records are 
available it. 
 
In  case  of  any  penalty,  pending  litigations  or  proceedings,  findings  of 
inspections or investigations for which action may have been taken or is 
in  the  process  of  being  taken  by  an  overseas  regulator  against  FPIs/ 
DDP,  the  DDP  shall  bring  such  information  forthwith,  to  the  attention  of 
SEBI, depositories and stock exchanges. The DDP shall mandate the FPI 
to  furnish  to  it  the  details  of  any  such  penalty,  pending  litigations  or 
proceedings on an immediate basis as and when levied/initialed.  

ix.  DDPs  shall  collect  and  remit  fees  to  SEBI,  as  prescribed  from  time  to 

time. 

 

6.1.4. 

Market Entry 

 

FPIs  would  not  require  direct  registration from  SEBI  and  they  would  be henceforth 
subject to registration by DDP. Each investor may be permitted to open one demat 
account for portfolio investments and a bank account as per RBI norms. In case of 
jointly  held  demat  accounts,  each  of  the  joint  holders  shall  meet  the  requirements 
specified for the investor and each shall be deemed to be holding a demat account 
as an individual FPI. 

 

 

6.1.5. 

Order processing  

Orders shall be placed directly by the FPI with SEBI registered Stock Brokers on the 
same lines as the present framework applicable to FIIs.  

 
 

6.1.6. 
 

Trade Settlement 

Appointment of DDP shall be mandatory for all categories of FPIs.   All settlement of 
transactions by FPI must be done through DDP acting as a Custodian.   
 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 45 
 

 

 

 

 

 

6.1.7. 

Eligible investments 

 

FPIs  shall  be  permitted  to  transact  in  all  the  securities  where  FIIs  are  presently 
permitted and any other instruments as permitted from time to time.  
 
FPIs can hold securities only in dematerialized form.  All securities holdings by FPIs 
must be through custodian of securities registered with SEBI. 

 

6.1.8. 

Other Guidelines 

The Committee recommended the following broad operational guidelines.  However, 
committee  was  also  of  the  view  that  the  detailed  operational  guidelines/framework 
may be prescribed by SEBI from time to time. 

 
The investor shall transact in Indian equity shares only on the basis of taking 
and giving delivery of shares purchased or sold. 
 
Each transaction shall be cleared and settled on gross basis. 

i. 

ii. 

iii.  Committee  recommended  that  under  the  proposed  FPI  regime,  -  the 
ODIs/PNs  issuer  FPIs  will  continue  to  report  directly  to  SEBI,  the  details  of 
ODIs/PNs on a regular basis, as prescribed by SEBI. 

iv.  Committee  recommended  that  under  the proposed  FPI  regime,  Category  III 
FPIs  will  not  be  allowed 
issue  PNs/ODIs.  The  committee  also 
recommended that those broad based funds, belonging to Category II, which 
are  not  directly  regulated  by  the  appropriate  regulator  in  their  home 
jurisdiction, should not be allowed to issue ODIs/PNs.  The ODIs/PNs issuer 
will continue to report directly to SEBI, the details of ODIs/PNs on a regular 
basis, as prescribed by SEBI. 

to 

v.  Margins and risk management framework as applicable in the capital market 

will apply. 

6.1.9. 

Investment Limits 

 

i. 

ii. 

The Investor and DDP shall ensure that the total shareholding held by the FPI 
shall not exceed 10% of paid up equity capital of the company at any point of 
time.    
 
This investment limit shall be applicable to each class of equity shares having 
separate and distinct ISIN. 
 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 46 
 

iv. 

iii.  Where  more  than  one  FPI  have  same  common  beneficial  owner,  all  such 
FPIs shall be together treated as one FPI for the purpose of this investment 
limit. 
 
Aggregate  shareholding  of  all  FPIs  shall  not  exceed  the  lower of  (i)  24% of 
the  paid  up  equity  capital  of  the    company  at  any  point  of  time  or  (ii)  the 
sectoral  cap,  in  respect  of  each  equity  share  class  having  separate  and 
distinct ISIN.  
 
In  case  the  company  raises  their foreign ownership  limit  to  the  sectoral  cap 
as  per  the  FDI  policy,  then  the  foreign  ownership  will  be  monitored  at  that 
level.  
 
The monitoring of investment limits at the individual level may be monitored 
by the respective DDPs. 

v. 

vi. 

6.1.10. 

Dissemination of FPI Investment Data  
 

Dissemination of FPI investment data shall be carried out by the depositories. 
 

6.1.11. 

Prohibited Sectors for Investments  

Prohibitions imposed on foreign investments by FEMA, shall apply to FPIs. 
 

6.1.12.  Generation and Allotment of Registration Number for the FPI 

 

The committee discussed the matter and recommended that:   
 

i. 

The generation and allotment of registration number be done through a 
common central system. 
The system will remain under the control of SEBI. 

ii. 
iii.  DDPs will have access to the system. 
iv. 
v.  SEBI fees would be collected through DDP. 

The system will generate a running sequence number. 

6.2. Taxation Framework 

 

 

 

The Committee discussed the present taxation framework for various portfolio investors.  It 
is recommended that GoI may consider bringing more clarity and certainty while prescribing 
the taxation provisions for FPIs. 
 
 
   

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 47 
 

6.3. Legal Requirements  

 

The  process  for  evolving  an  integrated  policy  on  foreign  investments  would  entail  the 
following amendments/modifications in the legal framework: 
 

i. 

ii. 

FII  regulations  prescribed by  SEBI  and  QFI framework prescribed by SEBI  and 
the RBI would be required to be repealed and replaced by a new framework for 
FPIs.  
 
FEMA  (Transfer  or  Issue  of  Security  by  a  Person  Resident  Outside  India) 
Regulations,  notably  Regulations  5  (2),  5(6),  7A,  8  and  Schedule  2,  5,  8  and 
other related provisions would have to be amended and replaced to prescribe the 
permissible caps and investment levels applicable to foreign portfolio investor; 

 

 

 

 

 

iii.  Necessary amendments in FEMA to replace references to FIIs with FPIs; 

iv.  Necessary amendments to PML Rules; 

v.  Necessary amendments in Income Tax Act, 1961;  

vi.  General permission granted by RBI to FIIs dated December 17, 2003; 

vii.  GoI guidelines dated September 14, 1992; 

 
viii.  RBI's Foreign Exchange Management framework; 
 

ix.  Necessary  amendment  to  the  following  regulations  are  needed  to  replaces 

references to FIIs and QFIs and recognize the FPIs: 

 

 

a.  Consolidated  FDI  Policy  dated  April  5,  2013  (more  particularly  paragraphs 
2.1.14,  2.1.32,  3.1.4,  3.1.5,  3.1.7,  3.2.5(f),  3.6.2  (vi),  4.1.2,  6.2.7.5,  6.2.8.1, 
6.2.8.2,  6.2.15.1.1.,  6.2.17.1,  6.2.17.2,  6.2.17.4.2,  6.2.17.4.3,  6.2.17.5, 
6.2.17.6.,  6.2.19,  paragraphs  3  and  5  of  the  Format  of  Form  FC-GPR, 
paragraphs  2.2,  2.3,  4,  5.1(iii)  and  (vii),  6.5  of  Annex  -2,  Format  of  Annual 
Return on Foreign Liabilities and Assets, Form FC-TRS, Form DR; 
 

b.  RBI  Master  Circular  on  Foreign  Investment  In  India  dated  July  2,  2012 
(Section  II,  Section  IV  (3),  (5),  (6),  Section  V(6)  to  make  changes 
corresponding  to  the  changes  in  the  Consolidated  FDI  Policy  in  relation  to 
references to FIIs while calculating the sectoral cap); 

 

c.  SEBI  (Issue  of  Capital  and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2009 

(Regulations 2(za), 2(zb), 2(zd)(ii)); 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 48 
 

 

d.  SEBI  (Substantial  Acquisition  of  Shares  and  Takeovers)  Regulations,  2011 

(Regulation 2(q)(2)(ix)); 

 

e.  The SEBI Act, 1992 (Section 12(1A)) 
 

To avoid too many individual legislative amendments, it is also suggested that a clause may 
be introduced in the respective legislations stating that the term “FII” in the legislations shall 
mean “FPI registered with DDP”. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 49 
 

7. ANNEXURE 

 

ANNEUXRE  I:    Regulatory  Requirements  and  Investment  Guidelines  of  the  Existing 
Foreign Investment Routes 

Regulatory Requirements and Investment Guidelines 

Portfolio Investment Scheme (PIS) 

Qualified Foreign 
Investors 

Non Resident 
Indians (NRI) 

Direct Portfolio 
Investment 

Direct Portfolio 
Investment 

No 
required. 

registration 

Demat  Account  with 
any  of  the  qualified 
Depository 
Participant 

No  registration 
required. 
 
Demat 
Account  with 
Depository 
Participant 
(DP) 
 
Trading 
account  with 
stock broker 

Foreign 
Venture 
Capital 
Investment 
(FVCI) 
 

Venture Capital 
/Private Equity 
Investments 
(typically long 
term) 

Yes, 
registration with 
both  SEBI  and 
RBI 
but 
channeled 
through SEBI 

Application 
Fees: 
US$2,500 
(non-
refundable)
 

 

Registration 
Fees: 
US$10,000 
(one time)  

Particulars 

 

Foreign Direct 
Investment 
(FDI) 

Automatic 
Route or FIPB 
Route 

Foreign 
Institutional 
Investors (FII) 
& Sub 
Accounts (SA) 

Nature of 
Investments 

Strategic 
Investments 
(typically long 
term) 

Portfolio 
Investments 
(trading 
activities) 

Registration 
required 

No  registration 
required. 

case 

of 
in 

In 
investments 
restricted 
sectors, 
investment 
specific 
approvals  need 
to  be  obtained 
from 
the 
Foreign 
Investment 
Promotion 
Board 

Yes, 
registration 
SEBI 
with 
(License  valid 
perpetually) 

Registration 
Fees:  

Each  FII:  US$ 
5,000  (upfront 
and 
subsequently 
every  3  years 
to 
maintain 
registration) 

Each  FII  Sub-
Account:  US$ 
1,000  (upfront 
and 
subsequently 
concurrent with 
the FII) 

Financial 
Instruments 
permitted 

•  Equity 

•  Equity 

•  Equity 

(listed/to 

•  Compulsorily 

Convertible 
Debts 

(Primary 
and 
Secondary 
Markets) 

•  Listed 

Corporate 

be listed) 

•  Corporate  Debt 
be 

(listed/to 
listed) 

•  Units  of  Mutual 

Funds 

•  Equity 

•  Compulsoril

y 
Convertible 
Debts 

•  Equity 
•  Units 

Mutual 
Funds 

of 

•  Debentures 
 

Derivatives 
(allowed 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 50 
 

Particulars 

 

Foreign Direct 
Investment 
(FDI) 

Automatic 
Route or FIPB 
Route 

Portfolio Investment Scheme (PIS) 

Qualified Foreign 
Investors 

Non Resident 
Indians (NRI) 

Foreign 
Institutional 
Investors (FII) 
& Sub 
Accounts (SA) 

Foreign 
Venture 
Capital 
Investment 
(FVCI) 
 

only on non 
repatriable 
basis and  

Subscriptions/ 
redemptions in 
equity 
and debt schemes of 
Mutual Funds (MFs) 
 
Primary Market 
transactions 
 
Secondary Market 
transactions (on 
exchange) 

Primary 
Placements 
 
Private 
Arrangement 
 
Permitted to 
sell on 
recognized 
securities 
exchanges 

Primary 
Market 
transactions 
 
 
Secondary 
Market 
transactions 
(on exchange / 
private 
arrangement 
subject to RBI 
guidelines) 
 

Not Allowed 

Not Allowed 

Not Allowed 

Page 51 
 

Debt 

•  G-Sec & T-Bills. 

•  Exchange 

•  Commercial 

Papers 

Traded 
Equity 
Derivatives 

• 

Interest 
Rate 
Futures 

•  Security 
Receipts 

•  Government 

Securities/ 
STRIPS 

•  Commercial 

Paper 

•  Units 

of 

Mutual 
Funds 

• 

IDRs 

•  Units 

of 

Collective 
Investment 
Schemes 

Primary Market 
transactions 
 
Secondary 
Market 
transactions 
(on exchange / 
private 
arrangement 
subject to RBI 
guidelines) 
 
Investment in 
Mutual Fund 
schemes  

Allowed within 
the SLB 

Primary 
Placements 
 
Sale on 
recognized 
securities 
exchanges.  
 
Purchases on 
securities 
exchanges not 
permitted  
Private 
Arrangements 
subject to RBI 
guidelines 
Not Allowed 

Transactions 
permitted 

Short Selling 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Portfolio Investment Scheme (PIS) 

Foreign 
Venture 
Capital 
Investment 
(FVCI) 
 

Qualified Foreign 
Investors 

Non Resident 
Indians (NRI) 

Foreign Direct 
Investment 
(FDI) 

Automatic 
Route or FIPB 
Route 

to 

in 

Ruling  market 
price 
for  sale 
trades 
on 
recognized 
securities 
exchanges 
 
Subject 
Pricing 
guidelines 
for 
all  off  market 
trades / specific 
as 
approvals 
accorded 
by 
the  concerned 
statutory body.  
 
Yes 
the 
extent  of  their 
investments 
/ 
dividend 
receivable 
India 
 
Forward 
contracts  once 
cancelled 
cannot 
rebooked 
FIPB approval 
required if the 
investment is 
made in non-
approved 
sectors. 

be 

to 

Particulars 

 

Pricing 
Guidelines 

FX Forward 
Cover 

Registration/Appr
oval 
Requirements 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Foreign 
Institutional 
Investors (FII) 
& Sub 
Accounts (SA) 
framework 
issued by SEBI  
Ruling  market 
price  for  trades 
on 
recognized 
securities 
exchanges 
 
Subject 
Pricing 
guidelines 
for 
all  off  market 
trades / specific 
approvals 

to 

to 

debt 

the 
Yes 
the 
extent  of 
market value of 
their 
/ 
equity portfolio 
 
Forward 
contracts  once 
cancelled 
cannot 
rebooked 

be 

FII: 

•  FII  Form  A 

(SEBI 
prescribed 
formats) 

•  Declarations 

& 
Undertaking
s  relating  to 
PCC/  SPC/ 
MCV 

•  FII  Group 

trades 

Ruling  market  price 
for 
on 
recognized  securities 
exchanges 
 
NAV  of  the  day  on 
which 
are 
realized  in  the  MF’s 
scheme 
bank 
account in India 
 

funds 

Ruling  market 
price for trades 
on  recognized 
securities 
exchanges 
 

Mutually 
acceptable 
price  between 
buyer 
and 
seller 
 
Ruling  market 
for  sale 
price 
trades 
on 
recognized 
securities 
exchanges 

Not Applicable 

Not Applicable 

No  
registration/approval 
required 

No  
registration/ap
proval required 

to 

In 
of 

Yes, 
the 
extent  of  total 
inward 
remittance. 
case 
outward 
remittance,  the 
amount  will  be 
from 
reduced 
the 
eligible 
cover 

A 

•  Form 
(SEBI 
prescribed 
formats) 

•  Constitutive 
Documents 
including 
Certification 
of 
registration 
in 
country 
incorporatio

the 
of 

Page 52 
 

Particulars 

 

Foreign Direct 
Investment 
(FDI) 

Automatic 
Route or FIPB 
Route 

Portfolio Investment Scheme (PIS) 

Qualified Foreign 
Investors 

Non Resident 
Indians (NRI) 

Foreign 
Institutional 
Investors (FII) 
& Sub 
Accounts (SA) 

Letter  

•  Constitutive 
Documents  

•  Latest 

audited 
financials 
covering  a 
period  of  12 
months  

•  Regulatory 
registration, 
License  or 
Approval 

 
Sub 
(SA): 

Account 

AA 

•  Form 
(SEBI 
prescribed 
format) 

•  Declarations 

& 
Undertaking
s  relating  to 
PCC/  SPC/ 
MCV 

•  FII  Group 

Letter 

Bank Accounts in 
India 

Not permitted 

to 
Permitted 
open 
non-
interest  bearing 
Rupee  account 
and 
foreign 
currency 
account  with 

Permitted 
to  open 
non-interest  bearing 
Rupee account 

to 
Permitted 
open 
non 
resident  rupee 
bank  accounts 
(NRO/ NRE) 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Foreign 
Venture 
Capital 
Investment 
(FVCI) 
 

n or bankers 
certificate  or 
income 
tax 
return 

•  Structure 

diagram  of 
the 
applicant 

•  Declarations 

on 

and 
undertaking
s 
investible 
funds, 
sectors 
for 
investment, 
life  cycle  of 
the  fund,  fit 
and  proper 
persons, 
and so on 

Investor’s 
firm 
commitment 
letter 
for 
investing  at 
least  USD  1 
Million 

• 

•  Financial 

statements 
and 
email 
address  of 
the 
applicant 
and 
investor 

the 

to 
Permitted 
open 
non-
interest  bearing 
Rupee  account 
and 
foreign 
currency 
account  with 

Page 53 
 

Portfolio Investment Scheme (PIS) 

Particulars 

 

PAN Card 

KYC Procedure - 
By whom 

Investment 
Restrictions 

Foreign Direct 
Investment 
(FDI) 

Automatic 
Route or FIPB 
Route 

Required 

AD-1 Bank 

sectoral 

Investment 
upto 
limits 
prescribed  by 
RBI; 
 
 

Repatriation 
benefits 

Tax 
computation 
/ 
certificate  from 
the  appointed 
tax  consultants 
of the FDI 
Form 
15CA 
and  Form  15 
CB  under  the 
IT Act 

 

 

 

Foreign 
Institutional 
Investors (FII) 
& Sub 
Accounts (SA) 
Category  AD-1 
Bank 
Required 

AD-1  Bank 
Local 
Custodian 
•  FII 

/ 

& 

• 

Broad 
Based SA: 
Investment 
upto  10% 
of  paid  up 
equity 
capital  of 
investee 
company; 
 

•  Foreign 

Corporate/ 
Individual  - 
Investment 
upto  5%  of 
paid 
up 
equity 
capital  of 
investee 
company 

Tax 
computation 
/ 
certificate  from 
the  appointed 
tax  consultants 
of the FII 

Foreign 
Venture 
Capital 
Investment 
(FVCI) 
 

Category  AD-1 
Bank. 
Required 

Qualified Foreign 
Investors 

Non Resident 
Indians (NRI) 

Required 

Required 

Qualified  Depository 

Participant 

Depository 
Participant 
Stock Broker 

/ 

Bank/ 

AD-1 
Local 
Custodian 

i.  At 

least 
66.67%  of 
the 
investible 
funds  shall 
be  invested 
in  unlisted 
equity 
shares 
equity 
linked 
instruments.  

or 

Investment  upto 
5%  of  paid  up 
equity  capital  of 
investee 
company 

• 

 

•  All  QFIs  cannot 
hold  more  than 
10%  of  paid  up 
equity  capital  of 
investee 
company 

Investme
nt  upto  of 
5%  paid 
up  equity 
capital  of 
investee 
company 

• 

 

•  All  NRIs 

cannot 
hold more 
than  10% 
paid 
up 
equity 
capital  of 
investee 
company 

Investment made are 
subject 
repatriable, 
to 
payment 
of 
applicable taxes 

on 

can 
NRIs 
invest  through 
designated 
ADs, 
repatriation 
and 
repatriation 
basis,  subject 
to  payment  of 
applicable 
taxes 

non-

Tax 
computation / 
certificate from 
the appointed 
tax consultants 
of the FVCI 
Form 15CA 
and Form 15 
CB under the 
IT Act 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 54 
 

ANNEUXRE II:  Comparison of existing foreign investment structure and harmonized model 

  

  

Market Entry 
 

Eligible  Home 
Jurisdiction  

KYC 
 

Investment 
Restrictions 
 -Equity 
(Individual/ 
Aggregate) 

Existing Categories 

Harmonised  
Foreign Investor Route 

FII 

QFI 

FVCI 

NRI 

FPI 

SEBI 
Registratio
n 

IOSCO  or 
BIS 
member 
with  some 
exceptions   
Uniform 
KYC 

No 
SEBI 
Registration 
(Account 
with QDP) 

+ 

FATF 
IOSCO=45 
countries  at 
present 

Uniform 
KYC 

SEBI 
Registration and 
RBI Approval  

SEBI 

No 
Registration 
and 
Approval 

RBI 

SEBI 

No 
(Account with DDP) 

Registration 

All Jurisdictions   N.A. 

IOSCO  Appendix  A  or  BIS 
Member – FATF Negative  

Uniform KYC 

Uniform KYC 

Risk based KYC 

  

  

  

  

  
  

10/24 

5/10 

Sectoral Cap 

5/10 

10/24 

 - Debt 

Limits 

Limits 

Corporate  Debt 
of 
issuer  
companies, 
where 
having 
holdings   

FVCI 
equity 

Limits 

Position 
Limits 

(Utilisation 

Limits 
monitored by Depositories) 

to  be 

Position Limits  

AD 
Bank to RBI 

Cat-1 

DDP to Depositories  

and 

NRI 
Issuer 
Company  

DDP 

 
Depositories 
inter-alia 
facilitate  dissemination  of 
FPI investment data 

to 

FPI and DDP as a AD Cat-1 

Bank 

 

Sr. 
No 

 

 
1. 

 
2. 

 
3. 

 
4. 

 
5. 

 
6. 

 
7. 

 
8. 

9. 

 

 -  Derivatives  

Transaction 
Reporting/ 
Dissemination   
 

Limit 
Monit
oring 
 

Indivi
dual 
Level 

Aggr
egate 
Level 

Position 
Limits 

Not Allowed  Not Allowed 

Custodian 
to SEBI 

QDP 
Depository  

to  

Direct  Reporting 
Net 
of 
Investment 
by 
FVCI to SEBI 

FII  through 
Custodian  

QDP 

N. A.   

RBI 

Depositary   RBI  

RBI 

Taxation 
responsibility 
 

FII through  
AD Cat-1 

Bank 

QDP 

FVCI through 
AD Cat-1 Bank 

NRI 

Order 
Placement 
 

Order 
Settlement 

Broker  

Custodian 

Broker 
through 
QDP 
Broker/ 
Custodian  

Broker  

Broker 

Broker  

Custodian, 
required  

if 

Broker/ 
Custodian 

DDP 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 55 
 

ANNEUXRE III:  DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS FOR RISK BASED KYC 

 

Document 
Type 

  

SEBI Uniform KYC 
Norm issued vide 
Circular dated 
September 05, 2012 
(FII/ QFI) 

Constitutive 

Docs 

Required 

Required 

Proof of 
Address 

Power of Attorney is 
already acceptable as 

address proof 

PAN Card 

Required 

Category - I 

Category - II  

Category - III 

Remarks 

Required 

Required 

Required 

Required 

Power of Attorney, 

mentioning the 

Required 
Power of 
Attorney, 

mentioning the 

address , is already 

address , is 

acceptable as 
address proof 

Required 

already 

acceptable as 
address proof 

Required 

Required 

- Address proof 
other than Power 
of Attorney should 

be submitted. 

Required 

- 

- 

PAN No. will be the 

primary identifier number 

of investor 

The exemptions / 
changes to seeking 

financial documents is in 

line with global best 

practice.  

Reliance on professional 
intermediaries for AML 
monitoring should be 

permitted. 

Acceptance of Board 
Resolution will provide 

the permissions / 

authority granted by the 

entity's Board of 

Directors.  

   This is also required 
under RBI guidelines. 

Entities should submit the 

standard KYC form, as 

there should be no 

constraints to fill entity 
level data. Relaxations 

towards submitting 
personal information 

under the KYC form must 

be provided. 

This information iss 

Financials 

Risk based 

Exempt 

Exempt 

Risk based 

 - Financial data 

sufficient. No 

financial 

documentation 

Entity Level 

SEBI 

Registration 
Certificate 

Required 

Not Applicable 
under new FPI 

regime 

Not Applicable 
under new FPI 

regime 

Not Applicable 
under new FPI 

regime 

The FII registration 

process at SEBI will no 

longer be applicable. 

Board 

Resolution 

Not Applicable 

Exempt 

Required 

Not applicable to 

Required 

Individuals 

KYC Form 

Required 

- Can be filled by GC 

Required 

Required 

- required with 

- required with 

data, no 

supportings 
necessary 

data, no 

supportings 
necessary 

Required 

- with data and 

supportings 

Senior 

Management 

(WTD/ 

Partners/ 
Trustees/ 

etc.)  

List 

Required 

- Alternately GC 

provides Undertaking 

Proof Of 
Identity 

Required 

- Alternately GC 

provides Undertaking 

Proof of 
Address 

Required 

- Alternately GC 

provides Undertaking 

Required 

Required 

Required 

already forms part of KYC 

Exempt 

Exempt 

Entity declares on 

letterhead - full 
name, nationality 

and DoB OR 
Photo-identity 

proof' 

form. 

We recommend that the 
requirement of obtaining 
personal information and 
documents of Directors/ 

Governing board 

members/ Trustees 
should be removed.  

Exempt 

Exempt 

Exempt 

 

In case of Category III 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 56 
 

Document 
Type 

  

SEBI Uniform KYC 
Norm issued vide 
Circular dated 
September 05, 2012 
(FII/ QFI) 

Category - I 

Category - II  

Category - III 

Remarks 

Required 

Photographs 

- Alternately GC 

Exempt 

Exempt 

Exempt 

provides Undertaking 

(unregulated entities) 

necessary details of the 

investing entity’s 

Directors/ Governing 
members/ Trustees 

should be obtained on the 
entity’s letterhead – which 

should include Name, 

Designation/Relationship 

with entity,  Nationality 

and Date of Birth.  

 

It is pertinent to note here 

that sharing personal 

information is 

discouraged in most 
foreign jurisdictions. 

 

Additionally, Refer Note 1 
for permitting reliance on 

regulated intermediary 

KYC. 

Required 
- List of GC 

Required 
- List of GC 

Required 
- List of GC 

signatories can be 

signatories can be 

signatories can be 

Required 

 -  

given in case of POA 

given in case of 

given in case of 

to GC 

POA to GC 

POA to GC 

Not required  

Not required  

Not required  

Required 

Not required  

Not required  

Not required  

Not required  

Authorized 
Signatories 

List & 

Signatures  

Proof Of 
Identity 
Proof of 
Address 

Photographs 

Not required  

Not required  

Not required  

Required 

List 

Required 

- Alternately GC 

provides Undertaking 

Exempt 

Required 

-  Can declare "no 
UBO over 25%"  

Required 

Ultimate 
Beneficial 

Owner  

Proof Of 
Identity 

Proof of 
Address 

Required 

- Alternately GC 

provides Undertaking 

Required 

- Alternately GC 

provides Undertaking 

Exempt 

Exempt 

Required 

Exempt 

Exempt 

Exempt 

Required 

Photographs 

- Alternately GC 

Exempt 

Exempt 

Exempt 

provides Undertaking 

 -  

 -  

 -  

is 

& 

 

provided 

investors, 
II 
For  Cat 
not 
where  UBO 
identifiable 
no 
percentage  declaration  is 
possible,  then  details  of 
senior  management  must 
be 
on 
letterhead  - 
full  name, 
nationality  and  DoB  OR 
Photo-identity proof' 
We  recommend  that  the 
requirement  of  obtaining 
personal  information  and 
of  UBOs 
documents 
should  be  removed 
for 
Cat I and Cat II investors.  
 
ID  proof  can  be  accepted 
for  Cat 
facilitate 
determination. 
UBO 
Indian 
However, 
intermediary  may 
be 
permitted  to  rely  on  the 
foreign 
professional 
intermediaries 
this 
requirement also.  

the 

III 

to 

for 

#  Copies  of  all  the  documents,  wherever  applicable,  to  be  submitted  by  the  applicant  should  be  self-
attested  and  accompanied  by  originals  for  verification.  In  case  the  original  of  any  document  is  not 
produced for verification, then the copies should be properly attested by entities authorized for attesting 
the documents, as per the SEBI circular no. MIRSD/SE/Cir-21/2011 dated October 5, 2011.  

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 57 
 

ANNEUXRE IV:  (This has been excised) 
 
ANNEUXRE V:  COUNTRIES CATEGORIZED AS “HIGH RISK AND NON-COOPERATIVE 
JURISDICTIONS BY FATF 

FATF High-risk and non-cooperative jurisdictions 
 
As per the latest FATF Public Statement 22 Feb 2013 available on FATF website following 
countries are considered as “High-risk and non-cooperative jurisdictions”: 
 

 

1.  Iran 
2.  Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
3.  Ecuador  
4.  Ethiopia  
5.  Indonesia  
6.  Kenya  
7.  Myanmar  
8.  Nigeria  
9.  Pakistan  
10. São Tomé and Príncipe  
11. Syria  
12. Tanzania  
13. Turkey 
14. Vietnam  
15. Yemen  

 
 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 58 
 

        ANNEUXRE VI:  (This has been excised for reasons of confidentiality) 

         ANNEUXRE VII:  LIST OF COMMITTEE MEMBERS 

Name of the 
Official 

Designation  

Shri K. M. 
Chandrasekhar 

Former Cabinet 
Secretary, GoI 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

Sr. No.  Committee Members  

Shri K. M. Chandrasekhar, Ex 
Cabinet Secretary, Government of 
India (GoI), Chairman of the 
Committee.  

Dept. of Revenue, Ministry of 
Finance, GoI 

Shri Madan Lal 
Meena 

 Joint Secretary 
(Revenue) 

Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs, 
GoI 

Shri Atul Kumar 
Tiwari 

Joint Secretary 
(Financial Services 
Division) 

Dept. of Economic Affairs, Ministry 
of Finance, GoI 

Shri Sanjeev 
Kaushik 

Director (External 
Markets) 

Reserve Bank of India 

Shri R. N. Kar 

Chief General Manager  

AZB & Partners 

Ms. Zia Mody 

Senior Partner 

BMR Advisors Pvt. Ltd. 

Shri Bobby 
Parikh 

Managing Partner 

Luthra & Luthra Law Offices 

Shri Rajeev 
Luthra 

Founder and Managing 
Partner   

PricewaterhouseCoopers Pvt. Ltd. 

Shri Ketan Dalal 

Joint Tax Leader 

10 

National Stock Exchange of India 
Limited  

Ms. Chitra 
Ramkrishna 

MD & CEO 

11 

BSE Ltd. 

Mr Ashish 
Chauhan 

MD & CEO 

12 

13 

14 

15 

National Securities Depository 
Limited 

Shri Gagan Rai  Managing Director 

Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited 

Shri P. S. Reddy 

CEO 

 

HDFC Bank Limited 

Shri Aditya Puri  MD & CEO 

Deutsche Bank AG 

 

Shri Mrugank 
Paranjpe 

MD 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 59 
 

Sr. No.  Committee Members  

16 

Citibank N.A.  

Name of the 
Official 

Shri Sudeep 
Yadav 

17 

HSBC Bank (Mauritius) Limited 

Shri Kapil Seth 

18 

SBI-SG Global Securities Services 
Ltd.  

Shri C. R. 
Sasikumar 

Designation  

MD & Head, 
Citi Transactions 
Services 
Head, India 
HSBC Securities 
Services  

MD & CEO 

19 

Infosys Technologies Ltd.  

20 

Reliance Industries Ltd.  

Shri V. 
Balakrishnan 

Shri Soumyo 
Dutta 

Board Member 

Treasurer 

21 

BlackRock Singapore Limited 

Shri S. Nagnath  President and Chief 

Investment Officer, DSP 
BlackRock 

22 

Amansa Capital Pte Ltd.  

23 

Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd. 

Shri Akash 
Prakash 

Shri M. V. 
Ramnarayan 

CEO 

Director 

 

Members of Sub Committee on KYC 

Members  of  Sub  Committee  on  Treatment 

of Foreign Investments 

1.  Shri SV Muralidhar Rao 

2.  Shri R N Kar 

3.  Ms. Chitra Ramkrishna  

4.  Shri Ashish Chauhan 

5.  Shri P.S. Reddy 

6.  Shri Mrugank Paranjpe 

7.  Shri Sudeep Yadav 

8.  Shri Kapil Seth 

9.  Shri C. R. Sasikumar,  

10. Shri Akash Prakash 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

 

 

1.  Shri SV Muralidhar Rao 

2.  Shri R N Kar 

3.  Shri Sanjeev Kaushik  

4.  Shri Bobby Parikh 

5.  Ms. Zia Mody 

6.  Shri S. Nagnath 

7.  Shri Ketan Dalal 

Page 60 
 

 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
 

1.  Anti-Money Laundering (“AML”) 
2.  Anti-Money Laundering/ Combating the Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) 
3.  Assets Under Custody ("AUC") 
4.  Authorized Dealer Category 1 bank ("AD-1 bank") 
5.  Bank for International Settlements ("BIS") 
6.  Central Board of Direct Taxes (“CBDT”) 
7.  Compulsorily Convertible Debentures (“CCD”)  
8.  Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares (“CCPS”) 
9.  Department of Revenue ("DoR") 
10. Depository Participants (“DPs”) 
11. Designated Bank Branches ("DBBs") 
12. Designated Depository Participants ("DDPs") 
13. Domestic Venture Capital Fund (“DVCF”) 

 

14. Financial Action Task Force (“FATF”) 

15. Follow On Public Offer ("FPO") 
16. Foreign Direct Investment (“FDI”) 
17. Foreign Exchange Management Act (“FEMA”) 
18. Foreign Institutional Investor (“FII”) 
19. Foreign Investment Promotion Board (“FIPB”) 
20. Foreign Portfolio Investor ("FPI") 
21. Foreign Venture Capital Investor (“FVCI”) 
22. Global Custodians ('GCs") 
23. Government of India (“GoI”) 
24. Indian Depository Receipts (“IDR”) 
25. Initial Public Offer ('IPO") 
26. International Organization of Securities Commissions ("IOSCO") 
27. International Securities Identification Number ("ISIN") 
28. Indian Venture Capital Undertaking ("IVCU") 
29. Know Your Client/Customer (“KYC”) 
30. Ministry of Finance ("MoF") 
31. Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding ("MMOU") 
32. Mutual Funds (“MFs") 
33. Non Designated Bank Branches (“NDBBs”) 
34. Non-Banking Financial Companies (“NBFC”) 
35. Non-resident External (“NRE”)  
36. Non-Resident Indian (“NRI”) 
37. Non-Resident Ordinary (“NRO”)  

38. Offshore Derivatives Instrument (“ODI”) 
39. Offer for Sale ("OFS") 
40. Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) 
41. Participatory Notes (“PNs”) 
42. Pass Through Certificates (“PTC’s”) 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 61 
 

43. Protected Cell Company/Segregated Portfolio Company/Multi Class Share Vehicle 

("PCC/ SPC/ MCV") 

44. Permanent Account Number (“PAN”) 
45. Persons of Indian Origin (“PIO”) 
46. Portfolio Investment Scheme (“PIS”) 
47. Power of Attorney ("POA") 
48. Prevention of Money Laundering Act (“PMLA”) 
49. Institutional Placement Programme ("IPP").   
50. Qualified Depository Participant ("QDP") 
51. Qualified Financial Investor (“QFI”) 
52. Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”) 
53. Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements ("ICDR")  
54. Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) 
55. Security Receipts ("SRs") 
56. Sovereign Wealth Fund ("SWF") 
57. Special Non-resident Rupee Account ("SNRA") 
58. Sub Accounts ("SAs") 
 59. Ultimate Beneficial Owner ("UBO") 
60. Unique Client Code ("UCC") 
61. Working Group on Foreign Investment in India ("WGFI") 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMITTEE REPORT 

Page 62 
 

