 

 

 

 

 

 

Report of the Working Group on Development of 

Corporate Bond Market in India 

August 2016 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INDEX 

Subject 

Introduction 

Issues and Recommendations 

Summary of Recommendations 

Annex I:List of key recommendations of 

earlier Committees/Reports not fully 

implemented 

Page No. 

1-5 

6-27 

28-33 

34-38 

Annex II: Measures announced in Union 

39 

Budget 2016-17 for deepening corporate 

bond market 

 

S. No 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

 

 

 

 

 

Chapter 1: Introduction 

1. It has been well recognized that a well-developed corporate bond market complements a 

sound banking system in providing an alternative source of finance to the real sector for its 

long-term 

investment  needs.  An  active  corporate  bond  market  also  helps 

in  the 

diversification  of  risks  in  the  financial  system.  In  order to  enable public and private  sector 

firms to borrow for longer maturity periods in local currency to meet their investment needs 

and  avoid  balance  sheet  mismatches  and  foreign  currency  exposures,  there  is  a  need  to 

accelerate  the  development  of  local  currency  bond  market.  An  active  corporate  bond 

market could also provide institutional investors such as insurance companies and provident 

and  pension  funds  with  quality  long  term  financial  assets,  helping  them  in  matching  their 

assets and liabilities.  

 

2. There has been a number of reports by expert Committees on development of corporate 

bond markets in India viz. Report of High Level Expert Committee on Corporate Bonds and 

Securitisation  in  2005  (R.  H.  Patil  Committee),  Report  of  the  High  Powered  Expert 

Committee  on  Making  Mumbai  an  International  Financial  Centre  in  2007  (Percy  Mistry 

Committee), A Hundred Small Steps [Report of the Committee on Financial Sector Reforms 

(CFSR)] in 2009 (Dr. Raghuram Rajan Committee), Reports of the City of London, etc. These 

Committees  have  examined  in  detail  various  aspects  related  to  the  development  of 

corporate  bond  market  and  have  made  useful  recommendations.  Many  of  these 

recommendations have been implemented. The major recommendations on which action is 

not complete, broadly grouped under a 7 I framework of Issuers, Investors, Intermediaries, 

Infrastructure, Incentives, Instruments and Innovations, are tabulated in Annex I.  

 

3.  Many  of  these  recommendations  have  been  already  implemented  by  the  Government 

and  the  concerned  regulators.    The  success  of  these  measures  in  achieving  the  intended 

outcomes  has,  however,  been  varied.  Impact  of  some  of  the  measures  taken  is  captured 

below: 

 

 

 

 

1 

Intended outcomes mostly 

Intended outcomes 

Intended outcomes not yet 

achieved 

partially achieved 

achieved 

  Setting  up  of  reporting 

  Banks  and  PDs  allowed  by 

 

Introduction  of  Repo  in 

platform  for  post-trade 

RBI to become members of 

corporate 

bonds 

to 

transparency 

stock exchanges to trade in 

meet the funding needs 

 

corporate bonds 

 

Introduction  of  Credit 

 

Introduction  of  DvP 

in 

 

Investment 

norms 

for 

Default 

Swaps 

to 

settlement of OTC trades 

banks  and  PDs  relaxed  by 

facilitate  hedging  of 

in  corporate  bonds  to 

RBI to facilitate investment 

credit risk by the holders 

eliminate settlement risk 

in corporate bonds 

of corporate bonds 

 

 

  Reissuance  of  bonds  

 

Issue  of  long-term  bonds 

  Final  guidelines  issued  by 

permitted by SEBI 

by  banks  allowed  with  a 

RBI 

for  partial 

credit 

minimum  maturity  of 

enhancements  by banks  to 

seven  years 

to 

raise 

corporate bonds 

resources  for  lending  to 

 

(a)  long  term  projects  in 

  Measures  taken  by  SEBI  to 

infrastructure 

sub-

encourage 

investor 

sectors, 

and 

(b) 

interest/participation 

in 

affordable 

housing. 

the corporate bond market 

These  bonds  have  been 

in  terms  of  liberalizing  the 

exempted 

from 

listing 

requirements, 

computation 

of 

net 

simplification 

of 

demand 

and 

time 

procedures  and  processes 

liabilities  (NDTL)  and  are 

and  simplified  disclosure 

therefore 

not 

been 

norms  

subjected 

to  CRR/SLR 

  Rationalisation 

of 

FPI 

requirements 

regulations has been put in 

 

place  by  SEBI  for  easier 

  The  investment  limit  for 

registration  process  and 

Foreign 

Portfolio 

operating  framework  for 

2 

 

Investors  (FPI)  has  been 

overseas  entities  seeking 

increased  to  Rs.  2443.23 

to  invest  in  Indian  capital 

billion.  Limit  allocation 

markets 

methodology  has  been 

rationalized 

and 

withholding  tax  rate  has 

been  reduced  from  20% 

 

 

to 5% 

  FPIs have been permitted 

to 

invest 

only 

in 

corporate  debts  of  at 

least 

three  years  of 

residual maturity 

 

International 

financial 

institutions  like  IFC  were 

permitted  to  float  rupee 

linked  bond  overseas  to 

deepen 

the  off-shore 

rupee  bond  market  so 

that 

IFC 

and  other 

investors 

can 

raise 

rupees  to  invest  in  India. 

This 

has 

facilitated 

development 

of 

benchmark  yield  for  long 

term corporate bonds 

  SEBI  has  allowed  setting 

up  of  dedicated  debt 

segment 

on 

the 

exchanges 

 

 

3 

4. The Financial Stability and Development Council Sub-committee (FSDC-SC) in its meeting 

held  on  September  10,  2015  decided  to  constitute  a  Working  Group  on  Corporate  Bonds 

with  representation  from  the  Ministry  of  Finance,  Government  of  India  and  all  the 

regulators with the remit to guide the implementation of the recommendations made by all 

the  earlier  committees  and  suggest  further  measures  that  may  be  taken  to  develop  the 

corporate  debt  market  in  the  light  of  evolving  macroeconomic  and  financial  market 

conditions  within  a  specific  time  span.  Accordingly,  a  Working  Group  was  constituted  as 

under: 

S. No.  Name 

Institution 

 

Shri Harun Rashid Khan 

Deputy Governor, Reserve 

Chairman 

Bank of India1 

Shri Ajay Tyagi 

Additional Secretary, DEA, 

Member 

MOF 

Shri Praveen Garg 

Joint Secretary, DEA, MOF  Member 

Shri Pankaj Jain 

Joint Secretary, DFS, MOF  Member 

Smt Barnali Mukherjee 

Chief General Manager, 

Member 

SEBI 

Shri S. N. Jayasimhan 

Joint Director 

Member 

(Investment), IRDAI 

Smt Sumeet Kaur Kapoor 

General Manager, PFRDA  Member 

Shri R. Subramanian 

Chief General Manager, 

Member-Secretary 

RBI  

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

 

5. Shri R. Subramanian, Chief General Manager, Shri. Vaibhav Chaturvedi, General Manager 

and Shri Vivek Singh, Assistant General Manager, RBI acted as the key resource persons to 

the  Group.  The  Group  had  a  series  of meetings in  Mumbai,  New Delhi  and through Video 

Conference/exchange  of  mails  where  all  the  issues  were  comprehensively  discussed  and 

various  implementable  recommendations  made  by  earlier  committees  were  examined  in 

detail. The Group also had a day-long meeting with all stakeholders in Mumbai to get the 

ground-level feedback regarding all the issues. Based on the initial discussions, some of the 

                                                           
1 Since retired on July 4, 2016 

4 

 

preliminary  recommendations  were  made  by  the  Group  to  the  Government  of  India  and 

they were included in the Union Budget 2016-17. These Budget announcements are in the 

process of being implemented (Annex II). Dr. Raghuram Rajan, Governor and Shri Harun R. 

Khan  and  Shri  R.  Gandhi,  Deputy  Governors  had  a  detailed  meeting  with  Shri  U.K.  Sinha, 

Chairman,  SEBI  and  Shri  Prashant  Saran  and  Shri  Rajeev  Kumar  Agarwal,  Whole  Time 

Members, SEBI on possible measures for the development of corporate bond market and in 

the  meeting,  it  was  agreed  that  both  RBI  and  SEBI  would  work  closely  on  some  of  the 

recommendations falling within their remit. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5 

Chapter 2: Issues and Recommendations 

1.  The  Group  recognised  some  of the  structural  features  of the  corporate  bond  market  in 

India impinging on the development of a deep corporate bond market: 

(i)  The corporate bond issuance is dominated by private placements as these account 

for more than 95% of the total issuance of corporate debt (2014-15); 

(ii)  A majority of the issuances are concentrated in the 2-5 year tenor; 

(iii) The  investor  base  is  limited/narrow  as  the  investment  mandates  of  institutional 

investors such as insurance companies, pension funds and provident funds, despite 

review  of  the  minimum  credit  rating  from  time  to  time,    provide  limited  space  for 

going  down  the  credit  curve  as  the  investments  are  made  in  fiduciary  capacity  to 

protect the interests of subscribers;  

(iv) Small  outstanding  stock  of  individual  issuances  is  one  of  the  key  factors  impacting 

secondary market trading as reissuances have not picked up inspite of the enabling 

provisions by SEBI; 

(v)  Functional trading platform with Central Counter Party (CCP) facility like NDS-OM in 

G-Sec is not available; the existing DvP-III settlement introduced by stock exchanges 

has found no takers; 

(vi)  There is total lack of liquidity in credit risk protection instruments like Credit Default 

Swaps (CDS);  

(vii) Stamp duties on corporate bonds across various states have not been standardised; 

tax  regime  for  financial  instruments  remains  one  of  the  key  drivers  of  investor 

interest; 

(viii)  There  are  inherent  structural  incentives  for  borrowers  to  prefer  bank  financing, 

e.g.,  cash  credit  system  and  no  disincentive  for  enjoying  unutilised  working  capital 

limits;  

(ix)  As  the  corporate  debt  market  cannot  be  looked  as  totally  detached  from  the 

sovereign bond market, this market may get a fillip as the interest rates come down 

with the inflation and fiscal consolidation targets being achieved; and 

(x)  In the current context, many large non-financial corporates who should normally be 

the  preferred  issuers  of  bonds  are  leveraged  and  hence  cannot  access  either  loan 

from banks or bond financing through market mechanism. 

 

6 

2.  Notwithstanding  the  above  limitations,  considering  the  importance  of  developing  this 

market, particularly as going forward the corporates have to reduce their reliance on bank 

lending  and  move,  accordingly,  to  market  mechanism  for  accessing  resources,  the  Group 

agreed  on  a  set  of  implementable  recommendations,  where  concerned  regulators  have 

agreed to take action and these are grouped under the 7 I framework as under: 

 

2.1 Issuers 

2.1.1 Reissuance  

The measures taken by RBI, SEBI and GoI have resulted in considerable increase in issuance 

of  corporate  bonds.  Total  corporate  bond  issuance  has  increased  by  around  236%  from 

Rs.1,74,781  crore  in  2008-09  to  Rs.4,13,879  crore  in  2014-15.  Similarly,  the  number  of 

issuances has increased by almost 153% from 1,042 in 2008-09 to 2,636 issuances in 2014-

15.  Secondary  market  trading,  however,  continues  to  be  very  limited  at  around  Rs.  2000 

crore  per  day.  One  of  the  reasons  for  the  lack  of  trading  volume  is  non-availability  of 

sufficient  floating  stock  for  each  International  Securities  Identification  Number  (ISIN)  as 

corporates  have  preferred  fresh  issuance  rather  than  going  for  reissuance  of  bonds.  Each 

new issuance from the same issuer receives a separate ISIN; hence older bonds in the same 

maturity become illiquid. Reissuance of the same issue for a particular maturity, similar to 

Government  securities,  can  help  maintain  liquidity.  To  augment  market  liquidity,  it  is 

necessary  that  corporates  are  encouraged  to  re-issue  existing  bonds  under  the  same  ISIN 

code.  A  major  argument  against  common  ISINs  is  the  bunching  of  liabilities  on  the  same 

date which can lead to asset-liability mismatch; however, this can be resolved by spreading 

out  the  redemption  amount  across  the  year  through  amortizing  the  payments.  Issuers 

should  be  encouraged  to  consolidate  their  various  existing  issues  into  a  few  large  issues 

which can then serve as benchmarks. This may also help corporates in terms of reduction in 

the  cost  of  borrowings.  Though  SEBI  has  recently  allowed  reissuances  by  the  corporates, 

there  has  not  been  any  reissue  of  bonds  by  any  corporate  due  to  problems  related  to 

bunching  of  liabilities.  The  possibility  of  mandating  corporates  for  reissuances  of  bonds 

beyond  a  threshold  limit  of  Rs.  500  crore  in  a  quarter  was  discussed  and  it  was  observed 

that the same may not be feasible. Corporates may be permitted to issue bonds under the 

same ISIN with a flexibility in terms of timing for raising the funds as  well as structuring of 

 

7 

the redemption requirements. Re-issuances may also not be treated as a fresh issuance for 

the  purpose  of  Stamp  duty  as  discussed  in  para  2.7.2  of  this  report.  SEBI  has  enabled 

consolidation  and  re-issuance  with  a  view  to  reducing  fragmentation  in  corporate  bond 

market. There are no requirements to file an offer or any other document with SEBI, for the 

purpose of re-issuance. Even though SEBI has issued such guidelines, it is observed that the 

issuers of debt securities do not undertake re-issuances due to stamp duty and the bunching 

of repayment liabilities. 

 

Companies  which  list  only  debt  securities  but  not  equity  are  treated  as  listed  companies 

under  the  Companies  Act  and  are  governed  by  the  corporate  governance  obligations 

applicable to listed companies. This is seen as a disincentive to smaller issuers to list their 

bond issuances.  

 

Recommendations 

1.  i. The issuers coming out with frequent debt issues with the same tenor during a quarter 

may club them  under the same umbrella ISIN  which in turn  would increase the float in 

the  market,  thus  enhancing  its  liquidity.  These  issuers  may  come  out  with  a  feasible 

maturity structure wherein they can stagger the redemption amount across the year by 

amortizing the repayments. Necessary changes may be made in the issuance process of 

ISINs by depositories, viz., NSDL and CDSL to facilitate the same. 

ii. Re-issuances may not be treated as fresh issuances for the purpose of Stamp duty. 

iii. The corporate governance norms applicable to companies which have listed only debt 

securities and not equity may be reviewed to make them less onerous. 

(Action: NSDL/CDSL/Ministry of Corporate Affairs/SEBI) 

 

2.1.2 Standardization of corporate bond issuance  

Presently,  the  secondary  market  yield  of  corporate  bonds  reported  on  the  reporting 

platforms  of  the  stock  exchanges  do  not  follow  uniform  standard  as  the  market  follows 

different conventions and divergent practices for holiday conventions, day count convention 

and basis for yield calculation. The yield is calculated based on cash flows of a bond. Cash 

flow  has  two  components:  (1)  date  of  cash flow;  and  (2)  amount  of  cash  flow.  Unless  the 

 

8 

date  of  cash  flow  and  the  amount  of  cash  flow  considered  by  the  buyer  and  seller  are 

uniform,  there  will  be  difference  in  the  yield  calculations.  Ambiguity  in  the  holiday 

convention to be followed for corporate bonds also causes differences in the dates of cash 

flows. 

 

In the Government securities market, the amount of coupon payable on a bond is uniform 

throughout the tenure of the bond. Coupon is paid semi-annual. The Day Count Convention 

followed  in the  case  of Government  securities  is  30/360.  SEBI,  vide  its circular  dated  April 

13,  2007,  had  advised  market  participants  to  follow  ‘Actual/Actual’  day count  convention, 

on  the  presumption  that  same  convention  is  being    followed  for  dated  Government 

Securities,  for  all  new  issues  of  corporate  bonds.  However,  Actual/Actual  day  count 

convention was not the day count convention followed for dated Government Securities in 

2007  or  at  any  other  point  of  time.  This  has  resulted  in  different  day  count  conventions 

being followed by the market participants in the bond market. To provide better clarity and 

facilitate greater trading volume, the Group agreed that the extant guidelines be reviewed 

to  ensure  uniformity  in basis  for  yield  calculation  across  issuers.  Similarly, parameters  like 

day  count  convention,  holiday  convention,  shut  period,  etc.  may  be  standardised  for 

corporate bonds as a class.   SEBI has set up a group to look into these issues and suggest 

uniform approach to calculation of interest and redemption payments.  

 

Recommendation: 

2.  As suggested by market participants, SEBI may have a re-look at the guidelines issued in 

October  2013  so  as  to  clarify  on  day  count  convention,  shut  period,  basis  for  yield 

calculation, calculation of coupon interest and redemption with intervening holidays with 

illustrations.  The  date  of  payment  may  be  specified  as  the  date  on  a  Mumbai  business 

day, the day on which RBI and money markets function. (Action: SEBI) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9 

2.2 Investors 

2.2.1 FPIs investment in corporate bonds 

In terms of Schedule 5 of the “Foreign Exchange Management (Transfer or issue of Security 

by  a  Person  Resident  outside  India)  Regulations,  2000”  (FEMA  20),  Foreign  Portfolio 

Investors (FPIs) can invest in only following categories of unlisted debt securities: 

a.  unlisted  Non-convertible  debentures  (NCDs)/bonds  issued  by  infrastructure 

companies; 

b.  primary  issuances  of  to-be-listed  NCDs/bonds,  i.e.,  which  are  committed  to 

be listed within 15 days of issue on private placement basis 

To  increase  the  investor  base  for  companies  issuing  unlisted  and  securitised  debt 

instruments,  it  is  announced  in  the  Union  Budget  2016-17  that  the  investment  basket  for 

FPIs  in  corporate  debt  may  be  expanded  to  include  unlisted  debt  securities  and  pass-

through  securities  (PTCs) 

issued  by  securitization  SPVs.  The  Group  reiterates  that 

appropriate framework may be put in place by RBI taking into account comments received 

on the draft circular issued in this regard and necessary amendments may be carried out in 

FEMA regulations accordingly. 

 

2.2.1.1  Investment  by  FPIs  in  corporate  bond  is  subject  to  overall  limit  prescribed  by  RBI 

from time to time. The current limit is Rs. 2443.23 billion. Limit monitoring is done through 

reporting  of  daily  utilisation  of  limits  by  each  FPI  through  their  custodian  banks  to  the 

depositories (NSDL and CDSL). In view of availability of a robust mechanism for capture of 

limits utilised by FPIs, FPIs may be permitted to transact in corporate bonds both in the OTC 

segment  and  in  the  Request  for  Quote  (RFQ)  platform  of  a  recognized  stock  exchange, 

subject to certain safeguards. This will also enable FPIs to trade directly on electronic trading 

platforms and thereby help in enhancing liquidity in the corporate bond market. Required 

changes may be carried out in both FEMA notification and SEBI guidelines to facilitate direct 

trading by FPIs in corporate bonds without involving brokers. 

 

Recommendations 

3.  Necessary amendments may be made in FEMA regulations to allow investment by FPIs in 

unlisted  debt  securities  and  pass  through  securities  issued  by  securitizations  SPVs  / 

 

10 

Special  Purpose  Distinct  Entity  (SPDE)  as  announced  in  the  Union  Budget  2016-17. 

Necessary notification, in this regard, may be issued by RBI by end August 2016. (Action: 

RBI) 

4.  Amendments  may  also  be  carried  out  in  both  FEMA  notification  and  SEBI  guidelines  to 

facilitate  direct  trading  in  corporate  bonds  by  FPIs  in  the  OTC  segment  and  on  an 

electronic  platform  of  a  recognized  stock  exchange,  subject  to  certain  safeguards, 

without involving brokers. (Action: RBI/SEBI) 

 

2.2.2 Clarification on exposure norms 

Banks  and  PDs  have  been  allowed  by  RBI  to  buy  and  sell  protection  in  the  CDS  market. 

Mutual funds, Insurance companies and Pension funds have been allowed to participate in 

CDS only as buyers of credit protection. Some market participants observed that there was 

lack  of  clarity  with  regard  to  counting  of  exposure  after  buying  CDS  protection  on  a 

particular bond.  RBI guidelines on credit default swap (CDS) for corporate bonds dated May 

23,  2011  clearly  state  that  the  protection  buyer  shall  replace  his  original  exposure  to  the 

reference entity, with that of the protection seller. 

 

Recommendation   

5.  In  terms  of  RBI  guidelines  on  credit  default  swaps,  the  credit  exposure  of  a  protection 

buyer shall be on the protection seller. In case of  need for further clarification of doubts, if 

any,  market  participants  may  seek  the  confirmation  of  the  respective  regulators.  (Action: 

FIMMDA / Market participants)  

 

2.3  Intermediaries 

2.3.1 Market –Making Scheme  

A  market  making  scheme  in  corporate  bond  could  potentially  improve  market  liquidity.  

Considering  the  current  state  of  the  corporate  bond  market  where  liquidity  is  very  low, 

availability of market makers can provide both entry and exit options to the investors. SEBI, 

vide  its  circular  dated  January 24, 2013, has  allowed  stock  exchanges to  introduce  market 

making scheme subject to its approval. Stock exchanges are, however, yet to come out with 

their  market  making  scheme.  The  Group  opined  that  the  stock  exchanges  may  quickly 

 

11 

operationalize  the  market  making  scheme  in  consultation  with  SEBI.  Once  the  market 

making scheme is put in place, the regulators may examine the possibility of allowing their 

regulated entities to act as market makers. It was also suggested that trading members of 

debt  segment  of  exchanges  may  be  allowed to access  the  repo  market to  enable  them to 

undertake market making in corporate bonds.  

 

2.3.2 The Group noted the relaxations allowed to PDs in terms of utilisation of borrowings 

from  the  call  money  market  for  the  purpose  of  investing  in  corporate  bond  market  and 

increase  in  single  and  group  exposure  norms  to  enable  their  active  participation  in 

corporate  bond  market.  The  Group  also  noted  that  banks  and  PDs  have  been  allowed  to 

become  members  of  stock  exchanges  for  trading  in  corporate  bonds.  As  per  extant 

guidelines, they are permitted to deal in corporate bonds and and so they can give a buy or 

sell  quote, 

intermittently  or  continuously  after  putting 

in  place  appropriate  risk 

management thresholds, either for going long or shorting the bonds for which they will be 

the market maker. Such risk management arrangements will have to be within the overall 

risk management guidelines prescribed by the regulator. 

 

Recommendations 

6. Stock exchanges may operationalize market making scheme in corporate bonds. (Action: 

SEBI/Stock Exchanges) 

7.  Regulated  entities  like  banks,  PDs,  in  addition  to  brokers,  may  be  encouraged  by  the 

regulators  to  act  as  market  makers  in  corporate  bond  market  subject  to  appropriate  risk 

management  framework.  RBI  may  examine  allowing  trading  members  of  debt  segment  of 

exchanges  to  access  the  repo  market  in  corporate  bonds  to  enable  them  to  undertake 

market making. (Action: RBI/SEBI) 

 

2.4  Infrastructure 

2.4.1 Electronic book for private placement of bonds 

Private placements completely dominate the primary segment of the corporate debt market 

accounting  for  more  than  90%  of  the  total  issuance  of  corporate  debt.  Corporates  prefer 

raising  funds  through  private  placements  as  against  public  issues  because  of  operational 

 

12 

ease of issuance, viz. minimum disclosures, low cost of issuance, tailor made structures and 

the speed of raising funds. Many market participants have indicated that private placements 

lack transparency and access is not available to a large pool of investors. The Union Budget 

2016-17  announced  that  SEBI  may  operationalise  electronic  auction  platforms  to facilitate 

transparent private placements. In this regard, guidelines have been issued by SEBI on April 

21,  2016  which  enable  introduction  of  Electronic  Book  Mechanism  (EBM)  by  the  stock 

exchanges  and  mandate  that  all  private  placements  of  debt  securities  in  primary  market 

with an issue size of Rs.500 crores and above, inclusive of green shoe option, if any, should 

be  through  such  a  mechanism.  Such  EBMs  have  been  operationalized  by  the  Stock 

Exchanges.  Bonds  with  issue  size  of  less  than  Rs.  500  crores,  are  required  to  disclose  the 

coupon,  yield,  amount  raised,  number  and  category  of  investors  to  the  Electronic  Book 

Provider and / or to the information repository for corporate debt market. Such issuances 

should also be covered under EBM over time. SEBI may consider extending the EBM to all its 

issuances  after  reviewing  the  success  of  the  EBM  for  the  existing  issues  and  market 

feedback. 

Recommendation 

8.  The  Electronic  Book  Mechanism  for  private  placement  of  debt  securities,  currently 

mandatory  for  issuances  over  Rs.500  crore,  may  be  extended  to  all  primary  market 

issuances. (Action: SEBI) 

 

2.4.2 Uniform valuation norms 

a)  Currently, RBI and IRDA have advised their regulated entities to follow credit spread 

matrix  published  by  FIMMDA  to  value  their  corporate  bond  portfolio.  FIMMDA 

publishes  spread  for  different  ratings  under  various  issuer  segments  like  banking, 

NBFC, corporates, etc. It is recognised that FIMMDA, though a quasi self-regulatory 

organisation, is not a regulated entity. Mutual funds, however, have been, following 

matrix  published  by  credit  rating  agencies  (CRAs).  CRAs  are  bound  by  the  code  of 

conduct  under  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies),  1999  to  address  possible  issues  of 

conflict of interest.  Further, Mutual Funds require daily valuations as they have an 

obligation  to  publish  net  asset  value  of  their  schemes  on  a  daily  basis.  However, 

FIMMDA rates and prices for corporate bonds are calculated on a monthly basis. Use 

13 

 

of  different  sources  for  valuation  of  corporate  bond  portfolio  by  regulated  entities 

adversely impact trading in the secondary market.  

Recommendation 

9.  A  uniform  valuation  methodology  available  on  a  daily  basis  may  be  followed  by  all  the 

regulated  entities  for  valuation  of  their  holdings  of  corporate  bonds.  All  regulators  may 

explore  an  acceptable  mechanism  for  valuation 

including  engaging  the  Financial 

Benchmarks  India  Pvt.  Ltd.  (FBIL)  or  credit  rating  agencies  for  the  same  with  necessary 

safeguards and regulatory oversight. (Action: RBI/SEBI/IRDA/PFRDA) 

 

2.4.3 Electronic Trading Platform 

An electronic platform for corporate bond trading has been in place for some time without 

much  activity.  As  per  the  extant  guidelines,  currently,  there  are  only  about  15  bonds  that 

are available for trading on the platform.  SEBI circular CIR/MRD/DP/ 27 /2013 dated 12th 

September 2013 prescribes the  norms for bonds that would be available for screen based 

trading:   

 

 

  All  publicly  issued  bonds,  irrespective  of  rating,  are  permitted  to  trade  on  the 

electronic trading platform with DVP-III settlement.  

 

In  the  case  of  privately  issued  bonds,  all  bonds  are  permitted  for  trade  on  the 

electronic platform with settlement on DVP-I basis.  

  For DVP-III settlement, only liquid privately placed bonds are permitted. SEBI has laid 

down requirements for a bond to be classified as a liquid security.  

At  present  the  penalty  for  short  delivery  of  bonds  is  5%  of  the  default  amount  which  is 

considered  very  high  by  the  market  participants  given  the  volatility  in  bonds  and  has 

deterred many of the market participants from executing trades on the trading platform of 

the exchanges. To encourage market participants to start trading on such platforms, the risk 

management practices of the clearing houses may be reviewed and a mechanism similar to 

equity market  where the  entity  involved  in delivery  failure  is  given  a time  period  to  cover 

from  the  market  and  failing  which  some  penalty  is  imposed  may  be  considered.    It  is 

 

14 

suggested that alternative mechanisms, such as borrowing through repo in corporate bonds, 

may also be explored. 

 

Recommendation 

10. The penalty structure in place for default in  delivery of debt securities/funds for trades 

subject  to  CCP  clearing  by  the  clearing  houses  of  the  stock  exchanges  may  be  reviewed  in 

consultation with all the stakeholders with a view to prescribing a penalty which is prudent 

yet reasonable. It is suggested that alternative mechanisms, such as borrowing through repo 

in  corporate  bonds,  may  also  be  explored  for  ensuring  settlement.  (Action:  SEBI/Clearing 

Houses of the Stock Exchanges) 

 

2.4.4 Credit Rating Agencies 

As  per  extant  regulatory  framework  prescribed  by  SEBI,  credit  rating  agencies  (CRAs)  are 

required to make disclosures about credit rating procedure, rating history and defaults on 

their  website  and  also  to  the  stock  exchanges  in  case  of  listed  securities.  In  terms  of  SEBI 

Circular CIR/MIRSD/CRA/6/2010 dated May 3, 2010, CRAs are required to disclose the rating 

movements/  history  of  credit  rating  of  all  outstanding  securities  on  their  websites  on  half-

yearly basis. As per Regulation 24(10) of the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999, 

the  CRAs  are  required  to  inform  the  Exchanges  about  any  changes  in  ratings,  including 

default, assigned to securities of a client through Press Releases uploaded on their website. 

The  Indian  rating  industry  has  been  following  the  global  best  practices  and  is  IOSCO 

compliant.  Market  participants  have,  however,  expressed  the  view  that  the  level  of 

compliance by the CRAs in adhering to these regulatory requirements is not high. The CRAs 

may  be  advised  to  strictly  comply  with  the  prescribed  regulatory  norms  and  adhere  to 

international best practices. The CRAs may be advised to publish the credit rating transition 

matrix on a frequent basis, say, at quarterly intervals, so that market participants are aware 

of the credit risk in the instruments they are trading. This will bring in greater transparency 

in the corporate bond market.  

 

The  need  for  CRAs,  who  are  eligible  users,  to  access  the  information  on  bank  lending  to 

large  borrowers  under  stress  from  credit  information  companies  (CICs)  is  also  considered 

 

15 

necessary. Currently, banks furnish loan overdue information to CICs on monthly basis; thus 

there  could  be  a  delay  of  five  or  six  weeks  in  reporting  overdue  information  to  CICs.  To 

ensure timely flow of information to CICs, banks may be encouraged to submit loan overdue 

information  to  CICs  at  least  on  a  weekly  basis.  RBI  may  also  examine  the  possibility  of 

allowing  CRAs  to  access  the  database  of  the  Central  Repository  of  Information  on  Large 

Credits (CRILC) based on legal opinion and other relevant factors.  

 

Recommendation 

11. CRAs may be mandated to strictly adhere to the regulatory norms with regard to timely 

disclosure of defaults on the stock exchanges and their own website. They may also   publish 

the credit rating transition matrix more frequently. CRAs may take up membership of credit 

information companies to access relevant credit information. (Action: SEBI/CRAs) 

 

12. Banks may be encouraged to submit loan overdue information to CICs on a weekly basis 

to start with. RBI may consider whether CRAs may be allowed access to Central Repository of 

Information on Large Credits (CRILC) database based on legal feasibility and other relevant 

factors. (Action: RBI) 

 

2.4.5 Integrated Trade Repository 

It  is  important  to  have  centralized  databases  which  enable  investors  to  get  complete 

information  about  corporate  debt  market  at  one  place.  Such  database  will  enhance 

transparency in the market and enable investors to take an informed decision. In terms of 

SEBI  circular  dated  October  22,  2013  on  creation  of  centralised  database  for  corporate 

bond, NSDL and CDSL have created a database for the primary market. There is, however, a 

need to have an integrated Trade Repository (TR)/database so that the information of both 

primary  and  secondary  markets,  such  as,  issue  wise  outstanding  size,  rating,  shut  period, 

price, volume of secondary market trades, rating migration, etc. are available at one place 

on non-commercial basis. Accordingly, an announcement for introduction of an Integrated 

TR for primary and secondary market in corporate bond market has been made in the Union 

Budget 2016-17. This budget announcement may be implemented expeditiously. 

 

 

16 

Recommendation 

13. As announced in the Union Budget 2016-17, a centralized database for corporate bonds 

covering both primary and secondary market segments may be established expeditiously in 

two  phases,  for  secondary  market  trades  by  end  August  2016  and  for  both  primary  and 

secondary market by end October 2016. (Action: SEBI & RBI) 

 

2.5  Instruments 

2.5.1 Credit Default Swaps (CDS) 

Non-availability of credit risk transfer mechanism in the corporate bond market works as a 

deterrent. Though CDS has been introduced in India, there is no activity in the market. One 

of  the  major  constraints  is  restriction  on  netting  of  MTM  position  against  the  same 

counterparty for capital adequacy and exposure norms. Without netting, the trades in CDS 

have become highly capital intensive as banks and PDs have to provide higher capital charge 

on  gross  basis  even  if  they  are  acting  as  market  makers  and  having  positive  and  negative 

position against the same counterparty. Netting has not been allowed by RBI due to lack of 

legal clarity. In order to encourage participation in CDS, netting of MTM position against the 

same counterparty for capital adequacy and exposure norms have to be enabled and legal 

impediments  may  be  addressed quickly.  In  this direction,  if needed,  suitable  amendments 

may  have  to  be  carried  out  in  the  RBI  Act,  1934  to  provide  complete  clarity  on  the  legal 

position relating to netting of OTC derivative contracts. Availability of netting of contracts is 

essential for smooth and successful implementation of the proposed margin requirements 

for  OTC  derivatives  and  the  development  of  the  OTC  derivatives  which  is  mostly  used  by 

clients  for  hedging  underlying  risks.  It  may  be  noted  that  due  to  lack  of  legal  clarity  on 

netting, RBI has proposed margining for non-centrally cleared derivatives on a transaction-

by-transaction basis rather than across the whole portfolio on net basis. This increases the 

cost of transactions and discourage market participants from trading. Pending amendments 

to RBI Act, based on expert legal opinion, possibility of permitting netting keeping in view 

the existing legal provisions and banking practices may be explored. 

 

Recommendation 

14. Amendments may be carried out in the RBI Act, 1934 to provide complete clarity on the 

 

17 

legal  position  relating  to  netting  of  OTC  derivative  contracts.  Pending  amendments  to  the 

RBI  Act  or  other  enabling  legal  framework,  based  on  expert  legal  opinion,  possibility  of 

permitting netting keeping in view the existing legal provisions and banking practices may be 

explored expeditiously. (Action: RBI/GoI) 

 

2.5.2 Repo in corporate bonds 

2.5.2.1  RBI  has  introduced  repo  in  corporate  bonds  in  2010  as  a  class  of  money  market 

instrument. Participation in the corporate debt repo market, however, continues to be very 

limited. The reasons cited for lack of interest in corporate bond repo include non-signing of 

the  Global  Master  Repo  Agreement  (GMRA),  non-availability  of  guaranteed  settlement, 

electronic  dealing  platform,  etc.  FIMMDA  may  consult  market  participants  to  develop  a 

commonly acceptable agreement. 

 

2.5.2.2  There  is  a  view  that  repo  in  G-Sec  through  CCIL  Repo  Order  Matching  System 

(CROMS)  is  far  more  easily  executable  compared  to  corporate  bond  repo.  Further,  G-Sec 

repo  is  considered  risk  free  as  the  exposure  is  guaranteed  by  CCIL,  a  qualified  CCP. 

Availability  of  CROMS  platform  simplify  the  overall  repo  process.  Corporate  bond  repo, 

however,  has  to  be  bilaterally  executed  and  various  parameters  like  security,  hair-cuts, 

rates,  amounts,  etc.  have  to  be  mutually  agreed  and  manually  entered.  Furthermore,  the 

first leg and the second leg prices have to be manually calculated; this increases the effort 

required  for  relatively  smaller  sized  deals.  In  addition,  the  small  deal-size  and  lack  of 

convenience  are  hindering  the  process  of  price  discovery  with  many  lenders  staying  away 

from the market. In the light of these issues, the Union Budget 2016-17 announced that RBI 

may develop a framework for an electronic platform for corporate bond repos. 

 

2.5.2.3  The  following  measures  would  address  these  operational  issues  and  encourage 

participation in the repo market: 

a. An electronic dealing platform with CCP facility similar to the CROMS platform for G-sec 

may  be  introduced  for  repo  in  corporate  debt.  Since  trades  executed  by  such  platforms 

would be cleared through the clearing houses of the stock exchanges, RBI, in consultation 

with  SEBI,  may  authorise  entities  to  provide  such  platforms.  Due  to  illiquidity  and 

 

18 

heterogeneity  in  corporate  bonds,  it  would  not  be  possible  to  provide  guaranteed 

settlement  for  all  categories  of  bonds.  Hence,  electronic  dealing  platform  for  repo  in 

corporate debt may also be introduced without CCP facility.  

 

b. FIMMDA may consult market participants to develop a commonly acceptable agreement 

for execution among the market participants.  

 

c. Keeping in view the challenges involved in providing guaranteed settlement in an illiquid 

and  heterogeneous  corporate  bond  market,  tripartite  repo  may  also  be  considered.  This 

would also help market participants in collateral management services.  

 

d. Liquid Mutual Funds have a maturity restriction of three months. A few MFs raised the 

question whether this restriction applied to securities purchased under a repo transaction. 

In a repo transaction, the underlying security is held by the repo buyer as a collateral against 

the risk of default by the repo seller and not as an investment. As per RBI guidelines dated 

March 23, 2010, during the repo period, repo sellers continue to have economic interest in 

the underlying security. Therefore, the underlying security of the repo transaction may not 

be taken into account while computing credit exposure limits prescribed under SEBI (Mutual 

Funds)  Regulations,  1996  and  circulars  issued  thereunder.  Liquid  schemes  can  be  a  repo 

buyer with an underlying corporate bond having maturity of more than 91 days. However, in 

case of  a default by the repo seller and the second leg of repo transaction fails, MFs would 

have  to  consider  such  underlying  security  while  computing  credit  exposure  towards  single 

issuer, sector, etc. and ensure compliance with all investment restrictions prescribed under 

SEBI  (MFs)  Regulations,  1996  and  circulars  issued  thereunder.  MFs  need  to  ensure 

compliance with investment mandate of the concerned scheme and sell the collateral if the 

repo seller defaults in the second leg of the repo transaction.  

 

e.  Currently,  repo  in  corporate  bond  is  permitted  only  in  the  OTC  market  and  the  trades 

executed are settled on DVP-I basis through clearing houses of the stock exchanges. Since 

repo  is  a  leverage  product,  participation  in  the  corporate  debt  repo  market  has  been 

restricted to regulated entities as a systemic risk mitigant measure. Moreover, enforcement 

 

19 

of  mandatory  adherence  to  the  repo  guidelines  may  be  difficult  in  case  of  non-regulated 

entities.  The  Group  was  of  the  view  that  all  entities  authorized  as  market  makers  in 

corporate  bond  market,  including  the  brokers,  may  be  allowed  to  participate  in  the  repo 

market  executed  on  an  electronic  platform  linked  to  guaranteed  settlement  as  risk 

management of these platforms would ensure that risk is managed. This will enable market 

makers to meet their temporary funding requirements.  

 

Recommendations 

15.  An  electronic  dealing  platform  with  CCP  facility  with  appropriate  risk  management 

framework  similar  to  the  CROMS  platform  for G-sec  may  be  introduced.  Electronic  dealing 

platform  without  CCP  facility  may  also  be  introduced  for  bonds  for  which  CCP  facility  may 

not be feasible. Necessary guidelines may be issued by end September 2016. (Action: RBI & 

SEBI) 

16.  FIMMDA  may  consult  market  participants  to  develop  a  commonly  acceptable  market 

repo  agreement  for  execution  among  the  market  participants  by  end  September  2016. 

(Action: RBI/FIMMDA) 

17.  Guidelines  on  Tripartite  repo  on  corporate  bonds  may  also  be 

introduced  by 

depositories/other entities in consultation with SEBI by end September 2016. (Action: RBI) 

18.  Entities  authorized  as  market  makers  in  corporate  bond  market,  including  the  brokers, 

may be allowed to participate in the repo market executed on electronic platform linked to 

guaranteed settlement. (Action: RBI) 

 

2.5.3 Basel III compliant Perpetual Bonds 

Given  that  the  public  sector  banks  would  be  required  to  raise  around  Rs.80,000-85,000 

crore  by  way  of  issuance  of  AT-1  instruments,  there  is  an  implicit  need  to  broaden  the 

investor base and make these instruments more attractive to the investors. In financial year 

2015-16, only one bank (viz. United Bank of India) was able to raise AT 1 perpetual bond for 

a  very  small  size  of  Rs.150  crores  with  (A-)  rating  and  at  a  very  high  cost  of  11.95%  p.a. 

coupon rate. Though RBI has relaxed stipulations to make them attractive for investors, the 

AT-1 issuance in financial year 2015-16 has practically been nil, because a number of public 

sector banks deferred their issuances due to lack of demand and high cost of  raising AT-1 

 

20 

bonds.  A  number  of  factors  as  mentioned  below  have  adversely  impacted  the  wider 

acceptance of these instruments: 

a.  The Insurance Regulatory Development Authority (IRDA) has not yet given its 

clearance  for  insurance  companies  to  invest  in  AT-1  bonds.  As  such  the 

insurance companies (one of the major investor segments) is not investing in 

this segment. 

b.  Employees’  Provident  Fund  Organisation  (EPFO)  is  yet  to  formulate  its 

guidelines  for  investment  in  these  bonds  and  as  such  they  are  not 

participating as an investor.   

c.  The non-Government Provident Funds (PFs) have been significantly investing 

in these bonds. However, the  notifications by the Ministry of Finance dated 

2nd  March,  2015  and  the  Ministry  of  Labour  dated  9th  June  2015,  regarding 

the  investment  pattern  to  be  followed  by  these  PFs  with  effect  from  the 

financial  year  2015-16,  have,  inter  alia,  stipulated  a  maximum  investment 

limit of 2 % of the total portfolio of the funds in AT-1 instruments. Further, a 

minimum  credit  rating  of  AA  from  two  credit  rating  agencies  has  also  been 

prescribed for these instruments. These stipulations would lead to negligible 

investment from this segment in the immediate future. 

d.  The Union Budget for the Financial Year 2015-16 has reintroduced allocation 

of  tax-free  bonds  for  some  select  infrastructure  companies.  These  tax-free 

issuances  would  be  far more  attractive  an  investment  option,  especially  for 

the  HNIs  and  cash  surplus  corporates,  and  could  eventually  lead  to  total 

diversion of their investment away from the AT-1 segment. 

 

In light of the above it is suggested that some measures may be taken to rejuvenate 

the  demand  for  AT-1  bonds  going  forward.  The  following  measures  may  be 

considered: 

a. 

IRDA  may  consider 

formulating  guidelines 

for 

investment 

in  these 

instruments  by  insurance  companies.  Ministry  of  Finance  may  also  advise 

EPFO to formulate guidelines for investment in AT-1 instruments of banks. 

 

21 

b.  The existing investment ceiling of 2% stipulated by the Ministry of Finance in 

the Investment pattern for PFs may be relaxed. 

c.  Since,  the  AT-1  instruments  being/to  be  issued  by  a  majority  of  the  public 

sector banks have a credit rating of AA- and below, the eligibility criterion for 

PFs and Insurance companies should allow investments in these instruments 

with credit rating up to investment grade in case of these banks. 

Recommendations 

19. Insurance companies and EPFO may be allowed to invest in AT-1 bonds of banks subject 

to prudential limits with credit rating upto investment grade. (Action: IRDA/ EPFO) 

20.  The  maximum  investment  ceiling  of  2%  of  the  total  portfolio  of  the  funds  in  AT-1 

instruments  stipulated  for  non-Government  PFs  may  be  reviewed  for  relaxation.  (Action: 

MoF) 

 

2.5.4 Bond Index 

Though equity indices such as Nifty 50 and the BSE Sensex serve as popular benchmarks for 

equities,  designing debt indices  has  posed  challenges  in  India  as  the  market  lacks  breadth 

and depth. Market participants, however, need a debt market index as benchmark. SEBI is in 

dialogue  with  stock  exchanges  to  design  a  suitable  debt  market 

index.  Stock 

exchanges/other  entities  may  design  a  suitable  corporate  bond  index  to  serve  as  a 

benchmark. 

 

Recommendation 

21. Corporate bond index may be introduced by the Stock Exchanges/other entities. (Action: 

Index Providers/Stock Exchanges/SEBI) 

 

2.6 Incentives 

2.6.1 Credit enhancements of bonds   

a.  RBI  Guidelines  on  Partial  Credit  enhancements  (PCE)  of  INR  bonds 

issued  by 

infrastructure companies, restricts the extent of PCE provided by banks to 20% of the 

bond  issue  size.  Since  bond  investors  normally  desire  at  least  AA  rating  on  a  bond,  a 

20%  PCE  may  be  inadequate  to  raise  the  rating  of  bonds  issued  by  infrastructure 

 

22 

companies.  It  is  observed  that  though  RBI  had  issued  guidelines on PCE  in  September 

2015,  no  such  PCE  has  been  provided  till  date  by  the  banks.  In  order  to  encourage 

corporates to avail of this facility, especially by infrastructure companies, it is desirable 

that during the initial phase the  upper limit for PCE by the banking system as a whole 

may be enhanced to a higher limit with no single bank having exposure of more than 20 

per cent. It is also felt that the capital required to be maintained by banks on account of 

PCE should be  lower if the base rating of the project improves. This would incentivise 

banks to provide PCEs on projects which are expected to perform better with passage 

of time. 

b.  A cap of 20 % of the bond issue size may be inadequate for NBFCs set up for providing 

credit  enhancement.  A  separate 

regulatory 

framework 

for  providing  credit 

enhancement  by  NBFCs may  be  necessary  so  as to  help  bolster bond  ratings  that  can 

attract investors. 

c.  As  announced  in  the  Union  Budget  2016-17,  setting  up  of  a  separate  dedicated  fund 

may  be  expedited by  entities  like  LIC  to  provide  credit enhancement to infrastructure 

projects.  

 

Recommendations 

22. During the initial phase the upper limit for PCE by the banking system as a whole may be 

enhanced to a higher limit with no single bank having exposure of more than 20 per cent of 

the bond issue size by end August 2016. (Action: RBI) 

23. It may be clarified that the capital required to be maintained by banks on account of PCE 

would be reduced if the base rating of the project improves during the credit enhancement 

period. Guidelines in this regard may be issued by end August, 2016. (Action: RBI) 

24. A separate regulatory framework may be formulated for providing credit enhancement 

of corporate bonds by NBFCs engaged in such activities. Necessary guidelines, in this regard, 

may be issued by end August, 2016. (Action: RBI) 

 

2.6.2 Encouraging corporates to tap capital market 

One reason for bank finance being preferred by corporations is the prevalence of the cash 

credit  system  where the  burden  of the  cash  management  of the  corporations  falls  on  the 

 

23 

banks. This facility impedes the development of corporate bond market. On March 27, 2015, 

RBI  has  issued  a  Discussion  Paper  (DP)  on the  Large  Exposures  (LE)  Framework  containing 

proposals for aligning the extant exposure norms for banks in India  with the standards on 

‘supervisory framework for measuring and controlling large exposures’ published by BCBS in 

April  2014.   The  DP  also  solicits  views  of the  stakeholders on  restricting the proportion  of 

borrowings  of  large  corporates  from  banks  and  making  such  corporates  use  the  market 

mechanism (corporate bonds, Commercial  Paper and other similar instruments) to meet a 

part  of  their  short  term  as  well  as  long  term  financing  needs.  With  the  objective  of 

encouraging alternative sources of funding to bank credit for the corporate sector to finance 

growth and to de-risk the balance sheets of banks, it was announced in the Union Budget 

2016-17 that RBI will issue guidelines to encourage large borrowers to access a portion of 

their financing needs through market mechanism instead of the banks. The Group reiterates 

the importance of this announcement.  

 

Recommendation 

25. Large corporates with borrowings from the banking system above a cut-off level may be 

required  to  tap  the  market  for  a  portion  of  their  working  capital  and  term  loan  needs. 

Necessary  guidelines  may  be  issued  by  RBI  taking  into  account  market  conditions  by 

September 2016. (Action: RBI) 

 

2.6.3 Rating Based Credit Risk Charge for investment by PDs in corporate bonds 

Standalone  PDs  are  at  a  distinct  disadvantage  regarding  capital  charge  for  credit  risk. 

Standalone PDs have a 100% risk weight even for AAA rated bonds (baring a few corporates 

which  are  part  of  PSU/FIs  category  and  non-capital  instruments  of  scheduled  banks) 

compared  to  20%  which  banks  have  for  investing  in  AAA  bonds.    The  differential  capital 

requirement for similar rated bonds put PDs at a disadvantage compared to banks.  It was 

suggested that the treatment of credit risk charge for standalone PDs may be made similar 

to  banks  to  improve  standalone  PDs  participation  in  the  corporate  bond  market. 

Accordingly, RBI has issued guidelines in this regard on April 28, 2016. 

 

 

 

24 

2.7 Innovations 

2.7.1  Acceptance of corporate bonds under LAF repo of RBI 

RBI  has  been  taking  only  Government  securities  as  collateral  for  undertaking  its  LAF 

operations.  Acceptance  of  corporate  bonds  as  collateral  under  Central  bank’s  liquidity 

management  framework  may  incentivize  banks  and  PDs  to  invest  in  corporate  bonds  and 

thereby  create  demand  for  corporate  bonds.  Internationally,  many  central  banks  [1]accept 

corporate  bonds  as  collateral  for  their  liquidity  operation.  It  is  not  uncommon  for  central 

banks to take a lead with a view to developing the financial market. However, it is desirable 

that such a step is taken after the market repos gain some traction on their own. Depending 

upon  the  development  of  the  repo  market  in  some  form,  Reserve  Bank  may  explore  the 

possibility  of  accepting  corporate  bonds  as  collateral  subject  to  suitable  risk  management 

framework  in  terms  of  rating  and  haircut.  To  begin  with,  RBI  may  consider  accepting 

corporate  bonds  for  overnight  LAF  operations  as  risks  related  to  rating  downgrade  and 

change in market price of the underlying collateral would be minimal. Based on experience 

gained, it may be extended for long term repos. The legal framework laid down in the RBI 

Act may be looked into and if required, necessary amendments may have to be carried out 

for enabling such operations involving corporate bonds. 

 

Recommendations: 

26.  After  the  measures  like  introduction  of  tripartite  repo  and  repo  on  electronic  dealing 

platform with CCP facility gain some traction, RBI may explore the possibility for accepting 

corporate  bonds  for  LAF  operations  with  suitable  risk  management  framework  including 

rating requirements and appropriate haircuts. (Action: RBI) 

27. Legal basis may be examined expeditiously to remove the technical obstacles for RBI to 

accept corporate bonds as collateral under LAF repo as and when the Scheme is introduced. 

(Action: RBI) 

 

 

 

                                                           
[1] Central banks in Australia, Canada, Eurosystem, Japan, Mexico, Sweden, Switzerland, UK and US accept 
corporate debt as collateral  

25 

 

2.7.2 Rationalisation of Stamp Duty 

Stamp duty paid by issuers is an important element in the cost of issue of bonds. In terms of 

the provisions of entry 91 of the Union List, the Central Government has the power to levy 

stamp  duty  on  issue  of  debentures.  Some  state  stamp  laws,  however,  also  provide  for 

entries pertaining to payment of duty on issue of debentures. Stamp duty can be levied by 

state governments on transfer of debentures. Currently stamp duty varies across states. To 

provide  incentives  to  the  issuers,  Group  agreed  with  the  long  standing  suggestion  to 

rationalize stamp duty across states and fix it on the basis of tenor and issuance value of the 

bond  and  also  introduce  a  suitable  provision  which  stipulates  the  maximum  amount  of 

stamp duty that is payable in respect of any single issue.   Further, re-issuance of the same 

security  should  be  included  for  the  purpose  of  the  cap  suggested  for  stamp  duty  to 

encourage re-issuances. This issue has been pending for quite some time. 

 

Recommendation  

28. The stamp duty on debentures should be made uniform across states and be linked to the 

tenor of securities within an overall cap. Re-issuance of the same security should be included 

for the purpose of the cap, in order to encourage re-issuance. As this issue has been pending 

for quite some time, this may be resolved expeditiously. (Action: GoI/State Governments) 

 

2.7.3   Investor Protection: Revamp Bankruptcy Act and SARFAESI Act 

A robust, timely and effective bankruptcy regime is critical to the development of corporate 

debt market from investors’ point of view. Steps, such as, reforming bankruptcy law, early 

resolution of bankruptcy cases and streamlining the procedures relating to insolvency would 

go  a  long  way  in  achieving  the  same.  The  issues  of  insolvency  of  financial  institutions 

established under statutes and bi-lateral netting among them during bankruptcy also need 

resolution. The recently passed Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 is expected to ensure 

recovery for creditors and address the concerns of investors in corporate bonds by providing 

new  time  bound recovery  and  resolution framework.  The  Code has  been  gazetted  on  28th 

May 2016 and rules under the Code are expected to be issued shortly. There are, however, 

many  challenges  in  terms  of  actual  implementation  of  the  Code:  speedy  establishment  of 

institutional framework of revamped DRTs and the National Company  Law Tribunal (NCLT) 

 

26 

and  informational  utilities,  IT  backed  work  processes  for  ensuring  the  timelines,  skill 

upgradation and reorientation of the approach of the judges, development of multi skilled 

insolvency resolution professionals who will be playing very important role under the code  

and addressing the transitional issues as the new regime evolves. 

 

Recommendation 

29.  In  order  to  achieve  the  objective  behind  the  Bankruptcy  Code,  issues  such  as  early 

notification  of  the  rules,  development  of 

insolvency  professionals,  tribunal/court 

infrastructure and information utilities and quick redressal of the transitional problems may 

be addressed with priority. (Action: GoI) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

27 

 

3. Summary of Recommendations 

 

Issuers 

 

Reissuance  

1. i. The issuers coming out with frequent debt issues with the same tenor during a quarter 

may club them under the same umbrella ISIN which in turn would increase the float in the 

market,  thus  enhancing  its  liquidity.  These  issuers  may  come  out  with  a  feasible  maturity 

structure  wherein they  can  stagger the  redemption amount across  the year  by amortizing 

the  repayments.  Necessary  changes  may  be  made  in  the  issuance  process  of  ISINs  by 

depositories, viz., NSDL and CDSL to facilitate the same. 

ii. Re-issuances may not be treated as fresh issuances for the purpose of Stamp duty. 

iii.  The  corporate  governance  norms  applicable  to  companies  which  have  listed  only  debt 

securities  and  not  equity  may  be  reviewed  to  make  them  less  onerous.  (Action: 

NSDL/CDSL/Ministry of Corporate Affairs/SEBI) 

 

Standardization of corporate bond issuance 

2. As suggested by market participants, SEBI may have a re-look at the guidelines issued in 

October  2013  so  as  to  clarify  on  day  count  convention,  shut  period,  basis  for  yield 

calculation,  calculation  of  coupon  interest  and  redemption  with  intervening  holidays  with 

illustrations. The date of payment may be specified as the date on a Mumbai business day, 

the day on which RBI and money markets function. (Action: SEBI) 

 

Investors 

FPIs investment in corporate bonds 

3. Necessary amendments may be made in FEMA regulations to allow investment by FPIs in 

unlisted debt securities and pass through securities issued by securitizations SPVs / Special 

Purpose  Distinct  Entity  (SPDE)  as  announced  in  the  Union  Budget  2016-17.  Necessary 

notification, in this regard, may be issued by RBI by end August 2016. (Action: RBI) 

4.  Amendments  may  also  be  carried  out  in  both  FEMA  notification  and  SEBI  guidelines  to 

facilitate direct trading in corporate bonds by FPIs in the OTC segment and on an electronic 

 

28 

platform  of  a  recognized  stock  exchange,  subject  to  certain  safeguards,  without  involving 

brokers. (Action: RBI/SEBI) 

5.  In  terms  of  RBI  guidelines  on  credit  default  swaps,  the  credit  exposure  of  a  protection 

buyer shall be on the protection seller. In case of need for further clarification of doubts, if 

any,  market  participants  may  seek  the  confirmation  of  the  respective  regulators.  (Action: 

FIMMDA / Market participants)  

 

Intermediaries 

Market –Making Scheme  

6. Stock exchanges may operationalize market making scheme in corporate bonds. (Action: 

SEBI/Stock Exchanges) 

7.  Regulated  entities  like  banks,  PDs,  in  addition  to  brokers,  may  be  encouraged  by  the 

regulators  to  act  as  market  makers  in  corporate  bond  market  subject  to  appropriate  risk 

management  framework.  RBI  may  examine  allowing  trading  members  of  debt  segment  of 

exchanges  to  access  the  repo  market  in  corporate  bonds  to  enable  them  to  undertake 

market making. (Action: RBI/SEBI) 

 

Infrastructure 

Electronic book for private placement of bonds 

8.  The  Electronic  Book  Mechanism  for  private  placement  of  debt  securities,  currently 

mandatory  for  issuances  over  Rs.500  crore,  may  be  extended  to  all  primary  market 

issuances. (Action: SEBI) 

 

Uniform valuation norms 

9.  A  uniform  valuation  methodology  available  on  a  daily  basis  may  be  followed  by  all  the 

regulated  entities  for  valuation  of  their  holdings  of  corporate  bonds.  All  regulators  may 

explore  an  acceptable  mechanism  for  valuation 

including  engaging  the  Financial 

Benchmarks  India  Pvt.  Ltd.  (FBIL)  or  credit  rating  agencies  for  the  same  with  necessary 

safeguards and regulatory oversight. (Action: RBI/SEBI/IRDA/PFRDA) 

 

 

 

29 

Electronic Trading Platform 

10. The penalty structure in place for default in delivery of debt securities/funds for trades 

subject to CCP clearing by the clearing houses of the stock exchanges may be reviewed in 

consultation with all the stakeholders with a view to prescribing a penalty which is prudent 

yet reasonable. It is suggested that alternative mechanisms, such as borrowing through repo 

in  corporate  bonds,  may  also  be  explored  for  ensuring  settlement.  (Action:  SEBI/Clearing 

Houses of the Stock Exchanges) 

 

Credit Rating Agencies 

11. CRAs may be mandated to strictly adhere to the regulatory norms with regard to timely 

disclosure of defaults on the stock exchanges and their own website. They may also   publish 

the credit rating transition matrix more frequently. CRAs may take up membership of credit 

information companies to access relevant credit information. (Action: SEBI/CRAs) 

 

12. Banks may be encouraged to submit loan overdue information to CICs on a weekly basis 

to start with. RBI may consider whether CRAs may be allowed access to Central Repository 

of  Information  on  Large  Credits  (CRILC)  database  based  on  legal  feasibility  and  other 

relevant factors. (Action: RBI) 

 

Integrated Trade Repository 

13. As announced in the Union Budget 2016-17, a centralized database for corporate bonds 

covering both primary and secondary market segments may be established expeditiously in 

two  phases,  for  secondary  market  trades  by  end  August  2016  and  for  both  primary  and 

secondary market by end October 2016. (Action: SEBI & RBI) 

 

Instruments 

Credit Default Swaps (CDS) 

14. Amendments may be carried out in the RBI Act, 1934 to provide complete clarity on the 

legal  position  relating  to  netting  of  OTC  derivative  contracts.  Pending  amendments  to  the 

RBI  Act  or  other  enabling  legal  framework,  based  on  expert  legal  opinion,  possibility  of 

permitting  netting  keeping  in  view  the  existing  legal  provisions  and  banking  practices  may 

 

30 

be explored expeditiously. (Action: RBI/GoI) 

 

Repo in corporate bonds 

15.  An  electronic  dealing  platform  with  CCP  facility  with  appropriate  risk  management 

framework similar to the CROMS platform for G-sec may be introduced. Electronic dealing 

platform without CCP facility may also be introduced for bonds for which CCP facility may 

not be feasible. Necessary guidelines may be issued by end September 2016. (Action: RBI & 

SEBI) 

16.  FIMMDA  may  consult  market  participants  to  develop  a  commonly  acceptable  market 

repo  agreement  for  execution  among  the  market  participants  by  end  September  2016. 

(Action: RBI/FIMMDA) 

17.  Guidelines  on  Tripartite  repo  on  corporate  bonds  may  also  be  introduced  by 

depositories/other entities in consultation with SEBI by end September 2016. (Action: RBI) 

18. Entities authorized as market makers in corporate bond market, including the brokers, 

may be allowed to participate in the repo market executed on electronic platform linked to 

guaranteed settlement. (Action: RBI) 

 

Basel III compliant Perpetual Bonds 

19. Insurance companies and EPFO may be allowed to invest in AT-1 bonds of banks subject 

to prudential limits with credit rating upto investment grade. (Action: IRDA/ EPFO) 

20.  The  maximum  investment  ceiling  of  2%  of  the  total  portfolio  of  the  funds  in  AT-1 

instruments  stipulated  for  non-Government  PFs  may  be  reviewed  for  relaxation.  (Action: 

MoF) 

 

Bond Index 

21. Corporate bond index may be introduced by the Stock Exchanges/other entities. (Action: 

Index Providers/Stock Exchanges/SEBI) 

 

 

 

 

 

31 

Incentives 

Credit enhancements of bonds   

22. During the initial phase the upper limit for PCE by the banking system as a whole may be 

enhanced to a higher limit with no single bank having exposure of more than 20 per cent of 

the bond issue size by end August 2016. (Action: RBI) 

23. It may be clarified that the capital required to be maintained by banks on account of PCE 

would be reduced if the base rating of the project improves during the credit enhancement 

period. Guidelines in this regard may be issued by end August, 2016. (Action: RBI) 

24. A separate regulatory framework may be formulated for providing credit enhancement 

of corporate bonds by NBFCs engaged in such activities. Necessary guidelines, in this regard, 

may be issued by end August, 2016. (Action: RBI) 

 

Encouraging corporates to tap capital market 

25. Large corporates with borrowings from the banking system above a cut-off level may be 

required  to  tap  the  market  for  a  portion  of  their  working  capital  and  term  loan  needs. 

Necessary  guidelines  may  be  issued  by  RBI  taking  into  account  market  conditions  by 

September 2016. (Action: RBI) 

 

Innovations 

Acceptance of corporate bonds under LAF repo of RBI 

26.  After  the  measures  like  introduction  of  tripartite  repo  and  repo  on  electronic  dealing 

platform with CCP facility gain some traction, RBI may explore the possibility for accepting 

corporate  bonds  for  LAF  operations  with  suitable  risk  management  framework  including 

rating requirements and appropriate haircuts. (Action: RBI) 

27. Legal basis may be examined expeditiously to remove the technical obstacles for RBI to 

accept corporate bonds as collateral under LAF repo as and when the Scheme is introduced. 

(Action: RBI) 

 

Rationalisation of Stamp Duty 

28. The stamp duty on debentures should be made uniform across states and be linked to 

the  tenor  of  securities  within  an  overall  cap.  Re-issuance  of  the  same  security  should  be 

 

32 

included  for  the  purpose  of  the  cap,  in  order  to  encourage  re-issuance.  As  this  issue  has 

been pending  for  quite some  time,  this  may  be resolved  expeditiously.  (Action:  GoI/State 

Governments) 

 

Investor Protection: Revamp Bankruptcy Act and SARFAESI Act 

29.  In  order  to  achieve  the  objective  behind  the  Bankruptcy  Code,  issues  such  as  early 

notification  of  the  rules,  development  of 

insolvency  professionals,  tribunal/court 

infrastructure and information utilities and quick redressal of the transitional problems may 

be addressed with priority. (Action: GoI) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

33 

Annex I 

 

List of key recommendations of earlier Committees/Reports not fully implemented 

S. No 

Recommendations 

Reference 

Relevant authority 

1 

There  should  be  a  guideline  limiting 

RH Patil Committee 

SEBI 

Group2/Committee 

Issuers 

the  number  of  fresh  issuances  that 

would 

include  re-issuance  of 

the 

existing  bonds  by  a  corporate  in  a 

given time period (say over a quarter). 

Any  new  issue  should  preferably  be  a 

reissue so that there are large stocks in 

any  given  issue,  thereby  helping  to 

create secondary market liquidity.  

Investors 

2 

Systematic Disclosure of Debt Servicing 

City 

of 

London 

SEBI/IRDA/PFRDA 

Performance 

Information: 

Banks, 

Report 

NBFCs  and  all  institutional  investors 

may be mandatorily required to report 

for  listed  entities  to  the  exchanges  a 

non-payment  of  debt  by  a 

listed 

borrower within 15 days. 

3 

Restriction  on  FPIs  to  invest  in  bonds 

India  –  UK  Financial 

RBI/GOI 

with  maturities  of  up  to  3  years  (a 

Partnership 

segment 

largely  confined  to 

lower 

                                                           
2  The  reports  examined  by  the  Group  are:  (1)  High  Level  Expert  Committee  on  Corporate  Bonds  and 
Securitisation,2005 (Chairman: RH Patil);(2) Report of the High Powered Expert Committee on Making Mumbai 
an  International  Financial  Centre,2007  (Chairman:  Percy  Mistry);(3)  A  Hundred  Small  Steps:  Report  of  the 
Committee on Financial Sector Reforms, 2009 (Chairman: Raghuram Rajan); (4) Reports of the City of London 
on  Development  of  India’s  Corporate  Debt  Market,2008-14;(5)  Report  of  India  UK  Financial  Partnership  on 
development of India’s Corporate Bond Market, 2015; (6) ASIFMA report on India Bond Market Roadmap,2013 
; and (7) IFMR report on Corporate Debt Market in India, 2014 

34 

 

rated  issuers),  constrains  investment 

by FPIs in bonds rated below AAA. 

4 

FPIs  are  currently  not  permitted  to 

India  –  UK  Financial 

RBI 

invest in securitisation PTCs which may 

Partnership 

be allowed. 

Intermediaries 

5 

6 

Encourage  growth  of  professional 

RH Patil Committee 

SEBI 

Debenture Trustees (DTs). 

The  role  of  debenture  trustees  to  be 

RH Patil Committee 

strengthened. 

Infrastructure 

7 

Creation  of  a  centralized  database  of 

RH Patil Committee 

SEBI/NSDL/CDSL 

all  bonds 

issued  by  corporates. 

It 

should  also  track  rating  migration. 

Database  should  be  made  available 

free of cost to all the investors. 

8 

The 

introduction 

of 

a 

DVP3 

IUKFP 

RBI/SEBI 

mechanism,  where 

funds 

and 

securities  are  settled  on  a  net  basis, 

will  give  a  significant  boost  to  the 

domestic  corporate  bond  market,  and 

make it easier for domestic and foreign 

institutional investors to trade in rupee 

corporate bonds.  

Incentives 

9 

  The  stamp  duty  on  partly  secured, 

RH Patil Committee 

GoI and State Govts. 

and  unsecured  debentures  should 

be made uniform across states and 

be linked to the tenor of securities, 

within an overall cap.  

35 

 

  To  promote  healthy  growth  of 

securitization  market,  the  central 

government 

should 

consider 

establishing 

an 

appropriate 

institutional  process  to  evolve  a 

consensus  across  States  on  the 

affordable  rates  and 

levels  of 

stamp  duty  on  debt  assignment, 

PTCs, security receipts (SRs). 

10 

Create  ‘credit  event  infrastructure’  on 

IFMR 

RBI/SEBI 

all  multiple  debt  holder  obligations, 

whether in the form of bonds or loans 

–  reporting  and  dissemination  of  a 

credit event across all creditors. 

11 

To 

create 

a  more 

attractive 

ASIFMA Report 

SEBI 

environment 

for 

investments, 

the 

credit  rating  industry  must  adhere  to 

international  best  practices.  By  doing 

so, investors can take advantage of an 

international 

standardized 

rating, 

which  will  in  turn  make  the  market 

more  transparent  and  reliable  which 

will  attract  both  domestic  and  foreign 

investors. 

12 

If  pension 

funds/other 

institutions 

ASIFMA Report 

IRDA/PFRDA 

were  to  use  CDS  to  hedge  their 

exposures  to  individual  issuers,  credit 

risk should be counted as an exposure 

to the hedge counterparty rather than 

the issuer. 

13 

Smoothing  out 

tax  discrepancies  ASIFMA Report 

GoI 

 

36 

between  equities 

taxed  at  0  % 

compared to bonds taxed at 10 / 20 % 

may  help  retail  investors  get  involved 

in the bond markets. 

14 

Guidance  be  developed  to  provide 

ASIFMA Report 

GoI 

clarity that GAAR rules do not apply to 

FII  capital  market  transactions  where 

the main purpose of these transactions 

are to provide investment products to 

international investors rather than the 

derive a tax benefit. 

15 

Municipal  bonds  may  be  given  some 

RH Patil Committee 

GoI 

Instruments 

fiscal support with such support taking 

the 

form  of  bond 

insurance  or 

providing  credit  enhancement  so  that 

municipalities are encouraged to issue 

such  bonds  for  development  of  urban 

infrastructure either on stand alone or 

on  pooled  basis.  A  plan  should  be 

drawn  for  developing  this  market  in 

India. 

16 

Launch  of  corporate  bond 

index 

IFMR, ASIFMA 

SEBI/RBI 

products by exchanges. 

17 

Restrictions  on  participation  in  repo 

ASIFMA Report 

RBI  

markets may be relaxed. 

 

Innovations 

18 

Market makers 

RH Patil Committee 

SEBI & Stock Exchanges  

A  market-making 

scheme 

for 

corporate bonds should be evolved by 

37 

 

the  market  participant(s)  willing  to  do 

so,  including  large  intermediaries  – 

such  as  banks,  primary  dealers  and 

investment banks.  

19 

Bridging  the  local  settlement  system 

ASIFMA Report 

RBI/SEBI 

with  International  Central  Securities 

Depository 

(Euroclear/Clearstream), 

ICSDs  now  allow  easier  movement  of 

global  collateral  across  borders  via 

their 

“collateral  highway”  would 

constitute  a 

further  step 

in 

the 

development  of  the  bond  market. 

Combined  with  offshore  settlements 

could  create  the  basis  for  using  local 

bonds  as  collateral  in  the  event  that 

market  participants  need  access  to 

USD cash. 

20 

A  clear  change  to 

Indian 

law 

is 

ASIFMA Report 

RBI/GoI 

required 

to 

recognize 

close-out 

netting,  an  established  practice  in  all 

advanced  financial  markets,  and  to 

establish 

an 

efficient 

recovery 

mechanism. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

38 

Annex II 

Union Budget 2016-17 

MEASURES FOR DEEPENING OF CORPORATE BOND MARKET  

a.  LIC  of  India  will  set  up  a  dedicated  fund  to  provide  credit  enhancement  to 

infrastructure projects. The fund will help in raising the credit rating of bonds 

floated by infrastructure companies and facilitate investment from long term 

investors.  

b.  RBI  will  issue  guidelines  to  encourage  large  borrowers  to  access  a  certain 

portion  of  their  financing  needs  through  market  mechanism  instead  of  the 

banks.  

c.  Investment basket of foreign portfolio investors will be expanded to include 

unlisted  debt  securities  and  pass  through  securities  issued  by  securitisation 

SPVs.  

d.  For  developing  an enabling  eco  system  for  the private placement  market  in 

corporate  bonds,  an  electronic  auction  platform  will  be  introduced  by  SEBI 

for primary debt offer.  

e.  A  complete  information  repository  for  corporate  bonds,  covering  both 

primary and secondary market segments will be developed jointly by RBI and 

SEBI. 

f.  A framework for an electronic platform for repo market in corporate bonds 

will be developed by RBI. 

 

 

 

***** 

39 

