 
 
 

 

 

 

 

HIGH LEVEL COMMITTEE UNDER THE 

CHAIRMANSHIP OF  

JUSTICE ANIL R. DAVE, RETIRED JUDGE, SUPREME 

COURT OF INDIA 

 

 

 

 

 

A REPORT ON THE MEASURES FOR STRENGTHENING 

THE ENFORCEMENT MECHANISM OF THE BOARD 

AND INCIDENTAL ISSUES 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PREFACE 

The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  was  set-up  with  the  following 

mandates, - 

(i) 

(ii) 

to protect the interest of investors in securities;  

to promote the development of the securities market; and 

(iii) 

to regulate the securities market. 

 

Protection  of  investors’  interest  is  the  primary  and  one  of  the  most  important 

responsibilities of the Board. The Board regulates the manner of raising monies from the 

public and in case of any default, it protects the investors’ interest by initiating several 

measures including suspending and cancelling the certificate of registration, debarring, 

penalizing,  prosecuting  defaulters,  ordering  recovery  and  directing  disgorgement  and 

refund to identifiable investors. The Board also regulates trading of securities and ensures 

that the same is carried out in tune with investors’ interest. The Committee has considered 

various  issues  pertaining  to  the  enforcement  mechanism  of  the  Board  and  made 

recommendations thereon to make it more robust and efficient. These recommendations 

seek  to  introduce  tactical,  strategic  and  systemic  changes  in  the  enforcement  process 

spread over a period of few years, to enhance and improve the capabilities of the Board in 

protecting the investors and indicting the defaulters. 

 

Part-A: Review of Intermediaries Regulations: 

 

The securities market is largely built on the infrastructure and services provided 

by the intermediaries. A deficiency in the functioning of an intermediary may possibly 

impact  the functioning of  the securities markets and erode investors’ trust. The  Board 

regulates intermediaries through:  

 

(i) 

substantive  Regulations  which  are  entity  specific  and  which  specify  the 

eligibility criteria for obtaining the certificate of registration and lay down 

the operating standards for providing financial services to clients, and  

 

 
Page | - 2 -  

(ii) 

 the SEBI (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 which regulate the manner 

of  holding  enquiry  against  them  in  case  they  violate  the  substantive 

regulations.  

 

In order to protect the interests of the investors, the Board should be able to initiate 

remedial and punitive action against the delinquent intermediaries efficiently and in a 

timely  manner  for  the  effective  regulation  of  the  securities  market.  On  the  basis  of 

experience gained in the enforcement proceedings against the intermediaries so far, it is 

felt  that  the  current  process  under  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008  is 

unjustifiably drawn-out and hence needs to be reviewed. The fact that intermediaries owe 

a fiduciary duty to the investors unlike other market participants, underscores the need 

for  proceedings  against  the  intermediaries  to  be  conducted  and  concluded  in  a  timely 

fashion.  

Hence,  to  enable  efficient  regulation  of  intermediaries,  the  Committee  has 

proposed rationalization of processes in the SEBI (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 to 

avoid  duplicity  of  proceedings  before  the  Designated  Authority  and  the  Designated 

Member. SEBI is required to adhere to the principles of natural justice in the course of its 

proceedings against an intermediary but such adherence cannot be meant to extend the 

application  to  such  an  extent  that  permits  holding  the  system  hostage  at  the  cost  of 

compromising  the  very  interest  of  the  investors.  It  is  thus  proposed  that  once  the 

Designated Authority has provided personal hearing to the intermediary and submitted 

the  report  to  the  Designated  Member,  in  the  second  stage  of  enquiry,  the  Designated 

Member shall, after issuing a notice to show cause and granting an opportunity of written 

submission  to  the  noticee,  proceed  to  pass  an  appropriate  order  in  the  matter  in  the 

interest of justice, equity and good conscience.  

 

Part-B: Recovery of monies due under the securities laws : 

 

Prior to July 2013, the Board was not empowered to recover amounts such as fees, 

penalty, disgorgement amounts or monies ordered to be refunded. Initiation of criminal 

proceedings for default in the payment of penalty levied by the adjudicating officer was 

 

 
Page | - 3 -  

the only action available to the Board. The results were not satisfactory, since the said 

proceedings were stalled for a considerable period of time due to the absence of Special 

Courts. Nor did they ensure actual recovery. In any case, this power did not extend to 

instances where the dues were not in the nature of penalties (amount due as refunds to 

investors, monies ordered to be disgorged and unpaid fees).  

 

After the promulgation of two Ordinances and the Securities Laws (Amendment) 

Act, 2014, the Board has been vested with the power to recover the monies  due under 

securities laws. The mechanism relating to the ‘Recovery Officer’ under the Income Tax 

Act,  1961  and  the  Rules  made  thereunder  were  made  applicable  with  ‘necessary 

modifications as if the said provisions and the rules made thereunder were provisions 

of’  securities  laws.  However,  the  ‘necessary  modifications’  are  not  clarified  anywhere, 

even in the Rules made by the Central Government. Over a period of time, on the basis of 

experience  gained,  it  is  noted  that  the  mechanism  of  Recovery  Officer  needs  several 

modifications considering that, - 

(i)  monies due under securities laws may be due to several persons and not just 

to the Central Government as is the case under the Income Tax Act, 1961; 

(ii) some  of  the  provisions  of  recovery  inserted  in  the  securities  laws 

enactments  are  more  suited  for  recovery  in  case  of  ‘clubbing  of  income’ 

which are not applicable in securities laws.; 

(iii) 

the  existing  provisions  do  not  take 

into  account  positive 

developments in law such as ‘e-auction’ which has been recognized by the 

Punjab  and  Haryana  High  Court  in  Dr.  Mandeep  Sethi  v  Union  Bank  of 

India & Ors (AIR 2013 P&H 82) and other courts subsequently. 

Securities laws empower the Board to frame ‘regulations’ which are consistent with 

the securities laws and the Rules made thereunder and to carry out the purpose of the 

securities laws. Since the relevant provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and the Rules 

thereunder have been incorporated as part of the securities laws enactments itself, the 

Committee is of the view that in so far as the modifications may be provisioned by way of 

subordinate legislation, the Board is competent to frame regulations relating to recovery 

while  certain  other  modifications  may  be  carried  out  by  way  of  amendments  in  the 

 

 
Page | - 4 -  

securities laws enactments. Accordingly, the Committee has recommended the issuance 

of comprehensive Regulations for Recovery, to clarify issues relating to recovery in the 

context  of  the  securities  laws.  The  Committee  is  also  of  the  view  that  amending  the 

securities laws enactments to clarify the power of the Board to make regulations relating 

to recovery would also obviate any unnecessary challenges in this regard. 

 

Part-C: Quantification of profit and loss and related issues: 

 

In the Report on the Settlement mechanism of the Board, this Committee has dealt 

with the factor relating to the ‘repetitive nature of the default’. In the present report, the 

Committee shall deal with the factors relating to disproportionate gains made and losses 

caused to investors by a defaulter and attempt to lay a roadmap to enable quantification 

of gains and losses and other incidental aspects, which are of material significance to the 

enforcement  processes  of  the  Board,  including  the  settlement  mechanism.  The 

Committee had inter alia recommended that broad list of defaults which could not be 

settled under the previous 2014 settlement regulations could be made principle based in 

view  of  the  Committee’s  impending  report  on  quantification  which  would  enable  the 

Board to arrive at a fair settlement. As the 2018 settlement regulations is in line with the 

recommendations of the Committee, this Report deals with the quantification of profit 

and loss due to various defaults, to the extent possible. Further, the Committee has taken 

note of the present non-public guidelines for quantification of profit (which do not pertain 

to quantification of loss to investors) used by SEBI and appear to be applicable to a limited 

number  of  ‘simple’  scenarios  and  do  not  capture  the  full  capabilities  of  the  technical 

resources available with the Board.  

 

The Committee notes  that over a period of  time,  securities laws violations have 

become complex. The Board should therefore prepare in advance for the challenges of the 

future and in order to do so, must also develop its technical resources to adequately assess 

and punish defaulters. In view of the same, the Committee advocates the use of financial 

economics  as  used  in  other  securities  jurisdictions  and  has  re-worked  the  manner  of 

 

 
Page | - 5 -  

quantification of profit and also provided for quantification of loss caused to the investors 

along those lines.  

 

In 1897, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. of the US Supreme Court in his seminal 

essay ‘The Path of Law’ mentioned that, “For the rational study of law the black-letter 

man may be the man of the present, but the man of the future is the man of statistics and 

the master of economics.” The statistical methods used by global regulators, such as event 

study  methodologies,  have  their  foundation  in  the  efficient  markets  hypotheses  –  that 

security  prices  reflect  all  publicly  available  information  (fraudulent  or  otherwise).  The 

2013  Nobel  Prize  for  Economics  was  awarded  to  Eugene  Fama  and  others  for  the 

‘development  of  the  efficient-market  hypothesis  and  the  empirical  analysis  of  asset 

prices.’ These techniques were first developed and applied in the context of stock price 

reaction to stock splits by Eugene Fama and others in their seminal work published in the 

International  Economic  Review  in  1969.  In  the  late  1980’s  the  USA’s  Securities  and 

Exchange Commission began the use of financial economics in securities litigation; now 

their use has become the gold standard in enforcement globally. The Commission whole-

heartedly  recommends  the  adoption  of  such  methods  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange 

Board of India in the similar disclosure based market regime of India.  

 

With international investors coming into the Indian markets and Indian investors 

investing  in  international  markets,  Indian  companies  issuing  ADR/GDRs,  global  and 

Indian companies seeking listing in dual jurisdictions, the economic world has become 

flat and the principles for determining the profits made by and losses caused to investors 

by defaulters need to have a universally sound foundation if investors are to be protected 

across jurisdictions. A situation where manipulation in a security is investigated by more 

than one securities regulator, is not too far away. It is desirable that various securities 

regulator’s methods of quantification are aligned to ensure consistency, avoid conflict and 

the latest techniques of financial economics be used to penalize defaulters.  

 

Securities  market  is  a  unique  market.  Quantification  of  profit  made  from  a 

securities laws violations and loss caused to investors is not always a ‘zero’ sum game. 

 

 
Page | - 6 -  

E.g. while profit may be derived from a particular transaction, the defaulter may employ 

a ‘pump and dump’ scheme and end up depressing the entire market price of the security 

manipulated, thus causing loss to the entire market and not just the person with whom 

the defaulter may have traded. Potential losses may dwarf potential profits and be beyond 

the  paying  capacity  of  most  defaulters  because  profit  made  from  a  securities  laws 

violations  and  loss  caused  to  investors  need  not  always  correspond  with  each  other. 

Separate principles have been recognised globally for their quantification and have been 

taken note of by this Committee. Similarly, in respect of ‘victim-less defaults’ (where there 

may  be  no  easily  identifiable  investor  who  may  have  suffered  legal  damages)  such  as 

insider trading, the profit to a defaulter may arise without any ‘quantifiable legal loss’ to 

any shareholder. 

 

In  view  of  this,  existing  securities  laws  provide  for  disgorgement  rather  than 

compensation.  The  disproportionate  gain  is  directly  relevant  in  the  levy  of  penalty,  in 

addition to disgorgement and settlement, whereas loss quantification is only used as a 

guidance tool for determining suitable penalty within the range specified by law or for the 

purposes of settlement. If loss caused to investors is not quantified, then the perpetrators 

of  securities  laws  violations  would  enjoy  a  windfall  as  the  penalty  imposed  may  be 

disproportionate to the fraud. 

 

Quantification in the context of a dynamic securities market is both a science and 

an  art;  based  on  defined  principles  drawn  from  law,  economics,  accounting  and 

mathematics, while being imprecise at the same time. To the extent possible, the Board 

should  attempt  to  quantify  the  unlawful  gains  made  and  losses  caused  to  investors, 

though the exact amounts may never be ascertainable with certainty, since uncertainty is 

a  necessary  feature of any dynamic securities  market  and  investors and  defaulters are 

subject to it alike. Investors and defaulters willingly subject themselves to market risks 

while making trading decisions for making lawful or unlawful gains, sometimes turning 

it  to  their  advantage  or  disadvantage.  They  must  therefore  be  subjected  to  the  same 

market  risks  when  being  judged  for  their  unlawful  activities.  Different  securities 

regulators and courts over the world have been able to establish working principles for 

 

 
Page | - 7 -  

different scenarios. This Report takes note of them and to the extent possible modifies 

them for the purposes of the Indian securities markets. 

 

The parameters for determining profits made and losses caused are an essential 

complement for proving the violation of securities laws and in fact supplement the fact-

finding inquiry. A separate inquiry to determine the profits made and losses caused is not 

required to be conducted after the inquiry that proves guilt, they are two sides of the same 

coin. Hence, investigation, inspection, inquiry and audit processes of the Board should 

require  the  relevant  authority  to  examine  the  relevant  aspects  that  are  necessary  to 

quantify during the investigation, inspection, inquiry and audit process itself, as doing so 

will also serve as an apercu to form the line of inquiry. 

 

The Committee hopes that in the coming years there would be further development 

in the jurisprudence relating to gains made and losses caused to the investors and the 

suggestions made by the Committee would be adopted and developed further by all stake-

holders as is the case in other jurisdictions abroad. 

 

The Committee, during the course of its deliberations, held detailed discussions 

and consultations with the Members of the Board and their officers, including the officers 

from the Department of Investigation as well as the officers of Enforcement Department 

and Department of Economic and Policy Analysis. These discussions and consultations 

have  been  immensely  useful  to  the  Committee  in  taking  a  considered  decision.  The 

Committee has also noted the difficulty that  may be experienced by the officers of the 

Board in applying its recommendations in the ongoing matters and therefore, inter alia, 

recommends  that  its  suggested  methods  be  utilised  after  a  certain  period  of  advance 

notice to all market participants and in future matters through internal guideline in the 

later days where the investigating and inspecting authorities have gathered the materials 

required for quantification. 

 

 

 

 

 
Page | - 8 -  

Part-D: Interface between securities laws and insolvency law: 

 

It  is  usual  for  entities  against  whom  proceedings  have  been  initiated,  including 

recovery, to be facing insolvency and winding up proceedings. In such cases, insolvency 

laws and securities laws become closely interlinked. It is in the Board’s mandate to protect 

the interest of the investors who are involved in such proceedings. The Insolvency and 

Bankruptcy Code, 2016 introduced landmark changes in the insolvency regime in India. 

The Code is still a work in progress as can be seen from the various amendments that have 

been made in the past few years. Of particular concern, is the manner in which certain 

provisions of that Code have been interpreted and applied, as it is not aligned with the 

fundamental objective of the Board i.e. protecting investors in the securities market. 

 

This part of the Report explores and lays bare the law of trusts that underpins fund 

raising activities in the securities markets. It is the law of trusts which forms the shield 

around the investors’ interest when the entities they have invested into, fall into a debt 

trap. The position of investors in securities as beneficiaries of a trust rather than as mere 

creditors  needs  to  be  recognised  by  the  Code  and  the  rules  and  regulations  made 

thereunder.  

 

Another concern is the manner in which the moratorium provisions of the Code 

are being interpreted. This has the potential to curtail the ability of the Board to protect 

the interest of investors since defaulters of securities laws may use the Code as a refuge 

from legal proceedings at the cost of public interest. This impacts the determination of 

guilt of not only the entities that are under the bankruptcy refuge but also of those co-

accused who may have incurred a secondary liability due to the acts of the insolvent entity. 

 

The Committee has also taken note of the intentions of the Government of India to 

bring  into  operation  the  provisions  of  the  Code  relating  to  individual  insolvency.  This 

could  have  a  huge  impact  on  the liability  of  promoters,  directors  and  other  individual 

defaulters  of  securities  laws.  Unless  certain  changes  are  made  in  the  Code,  such 

individuals may be able to use the Code to defeat public interest. Some recent changes to 

the Code by way of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2019 have 

 

 
Page | - 9 -  

also been analysed. The Committee has examined the insolvency, recovery and securities 

laws jurisprudence of  India and abroad and suggested suitable changes in the Code to 

ensure that insolvency law is not used as a refuge by defaulters, thereby protecting the 

interest of investors. 

 

The Committee expresses its gratitude to  Mr. Ajay Tyagi, Chairman, SEBI for 

constituting  the  Committee  and  entrusting  it  with  the  task  of  reviewing  the  aforesaid 

issues for improving the enforcement mechanism of SEBI. I would once again like to place 

on record my deep appreciation of the valuable inputs of Shri Pratap Venugopal, who has 

assisted me as member of the committee. The Committee is grateful to all the participants 

for sharing their expertise. The Committee is also grateful to the senior leadership of SEBI 

for taking time to share their expertise during several days of interaction with them.  

 

The Committee also expresses its appreciation for the invaluable support and work 

on this project to the legal officers of the Board viz.-  

  Mr. Chaudhary Suraj;  
  Mr. Durgesh Kumar Thakur; 
  Mr. T. Vinay Rajneesh;  
  Mr. G Vijayakrishnan; and  
  Ms. Babitha Rayudu; 

- as well as the contribution of the other officers of the legal department of SEBI in setting 

the agenda, identifying and interacting with the participants, conducting the briefings and 

producing  this  Report.  The  Committee  is  also  grateful  to  the  Board  for  providing  the 

administrative and programmatic support. 

 

 

JUSTICE ANIL R. DAVE, 

Judge (Retd.), Supreme Court of India, 

CHAIRMAN 

Mumbai,  March 2, 2020 

 

 
Page | - 10 -  

TERMS OF REFERENCE 

 

The Committee was formed on December 14, 2017 under the Chairmanship of Justice A. 

R Dave (Retd.). The terms of reference of the Committee are as follows: 

 

 

1.  Review  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Settlement of 

Administrative and Civil Proceedings) Regulations, 2014;  

 

2.  Review  the  enforcement  mechanism  of  the  Board,  in  particular,  the  Recovery 

mechanism under the securities laws;  

 

3.  Explore  means  of  legislating  a  methodology  for  quantification  of  the  factors 

indicated in Section 15J of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992, 

Section  19I  of  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  and  Section  23J  of  the  Securities 

Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956; and 

 

4.  Any other matter, as the Committee deems fit relating to the terms of reference. 

APPROACH TO THE REPORT ON STRENGTHENING THE ENFORCEMENT MECHANISM 

 

The  Report  on  Settlement  Mechanism  was  submitted  in  respect  of  the  first  Term  of 

Reference  on  August  10,  2018.  This  Report  sets  out  the  recommendations  of  the 

Committee  inter  alia  in  respect  of  the  remaining  terms  of  reference.  The Committee’s 

approach  to  the  recommendations  has  been  driven  by  the  primary  objective  of 

strengthening  the  enforcement  process  and  the  ensuing  recovery  by  the  Board  while 

balancing  the  interest  of  the  investors  in  securities  and  that  of  the  securities  laws 

defaulters.  In  this  regard,  the  Committee  also  believes  that  there  are  certain 

recommendations  which  may  require  implementation  by  authorities  other  than  SEBI. 

Therefore, the Committee has also suggested that SEBI take up such recommendations 

with the relevant authorities. 

 

 

 
Page | - 11 -  

 

 

 

GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN THE REPORT 

 

Sr. No.  Terms Used 

Meaning 

1.   

2.   

3.   

4.   

5.   

6.   

7.   

8.   

9.   

10.  

AO 

Board 

Adjudicating Officer 

The Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Depositories Act 

Depositories Act, 1996 

DA 

DM 

FCA 

IBBI 

IBC 

SAT 

Designated Authority 

Designated Member 

Financial Conduct Authority 

The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India 

Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 

Securities Appellate Tribunal 

Settlement Regulations 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018 

11.  

Intermediaries 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

Regulations  

(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 

12.  

13.  

14.  

SCRA 

SEBI 

SEBI Act 

15.  

SEC 

16.   WTM 

Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

Act, 1992 

US Securities and Exchange Commission 

Whole Time Member 

 

 
Page | - 12 -  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PART-A 

REVIEW OF THE INTERMEDIARIES REGULATIONS 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I. 

INTRODUCTION 

 
Intermediaries operate as the bridge between capital providers and capital seekers in the 
securities market. The capital providers i.e. the investors, especially retail investors, do 

not have adequate information, knowledge or expertise and the capital seekers i.e. the 

issuers do not have adequate resources to reach out to individual investors spread across 

the world. Therefore, intermediaries play a very crucial role in making the market matrix, 

and ensuring smooth working of anonymous order-driven trading platforms. 

 

DEFINING INTERMEDIARIES 

 

The Committee notes that although only Chapters V, V-A and VI of the Securities and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008  ("Intermediaries 

Regulations") have been notified and are in force, the definition of an intermediary under 

regulation 2(1)(g) is not yet operative. For the purpose of the Report, it may be referred 

to  in  order  to  understand  the  concept  from  a  regulatory  perspective  since  the  other 

statutes  do  not  offer  any  principle  based  definition  of  the  term  “intermediary”.  The 

Intermediaries Regulations has defined the term "intermediary" as follows:  

 

“Regulation 2 (1) (g) - “intermediary” means a person mentioned in clauses (b) 

and (ba) of sub-section (2) of section 11 and sub-section (1) and (1A) of section 12 

of  the  [SEBI]  (supplied)  Act  and  includes  an  asset  management  company  in 

relation  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual  Funds) 

Regulations, 1996, a clearing member of a clearing corporation or clearing house, 

foreign  portfolio  investors  and  a  trading  member  of  a  derivative  segment  or 

currency  derivatives  segment  of  a  stock  exchange  but  does  not  include  foreign 

venture capital investor, mutual fund, collective investment scheme and venture 

capital fund;” 

 

 

 
Page | - 14 -  

 

The intermediaries mentioned in clauses (b) and (ba) of sub-section (2) of section 11 and 

sub-section (1) and (1A) of section 12 of the SEBI Act are given below: 

i) 

ii) 

iii) 

iv) 

v) 

vi) 

stock brokers;  

sub-brokers (this category has since ceased to exist);  

share transfer agents;  

bankers to an issue;  

trustees of trust deeds; 

registrars to an issue; 

vii)  merchant bankers; 

viii)  underwriters; 

ix) 

x) 

xi) 

portfolio managers; 

investment advisers;  

depositories and their participants; 

xii) 

custodians of securities; 

xiii) 

foreign institutional investors;  

xiv) 

credit rating agencies 

xv) 

such other intermediaries who may be associated with the securities markets in 

any manner or such other intermediaries as the Board may, by notification, specify in this 

behalf. 

 

The definition of “intermediary” is inclusive although the term “intermediary” as defined 

in  the  Intermediaries  Regulations,  specifically  includes  and  excludes  certain  types  of 

persons  associated  with  the  securities  markets.  Thus,  even  other  market  participants, 

which provide services akin to that of an intermediary, albeit not specifically included in 

the definition, would come under the purview of Intermediaries Regulations.  

 

 

Several other players in the securities market are required to register under the specific 

regulations governing them and their activities such as, - 

(a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996;  

(b) The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Collective  Investment  Schemes) 

Regulations, 1999; 

 

 
Page | - 15 -  

 

 

 

(c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised 

Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2008; 

(d) The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative  Investment  Funds) 

Regulations, 2012; 

(e) The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Infrastructure Investment  Trusts) 

Regulations, 2014; 

(f)  The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Real  Estate  Investment  Trusts) 

Regulations, 2014. 

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY OF THE INTERMEDIARIES REGULATIONS  

 

Between  1992  and  2002,  separate  regulations  dealing  with  each  intermediary  were 

framed  which  provided  for  the  process  of  registration,  laid  down  obligations  and 

responsibilities of the intermediary, specified the procedure for inspection and stipulated 

action in case of default by the intermediary. 

 

In 2002, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by 

Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002 ("Enquiry Regulations") were 

notified. These regulations consolidated the procedure for action to be taken in case of 

default by any of the intermediaries. The remaining provisions pertaining to registration, 

procedure  for  inspection  and  those pertaining  to  obligation  and  responsibilities of  the 

intermediaries were retained in the respective Regulations.  

  

Thereafter  in  2008,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 

Regulations,  2008  were  framed,  which  provided  for  a  consolidated  approach  while 

dealing  with  registration  of  intermediaries,  their  general  obligations,  inspection  and 

disciplinary  proceedings  and  action  in  case  of  default  as  well  as  the  manner  of  the 

suspension or cancellation of certificate of all intermediaries. However, only Chapter V 

dealing with action in  case of default and manner of  suspension or cancellation of  the 

certificate  of  all  intermediaries,  Chapter  VA  dealing  with  the  summary  procedure  and 

 

 
Page | - 16 -  

 

Chapter  VI  dealing  with  miscellaneous  issues  of  the  Intermediaries  Regulations  were 

brought into effect after due notification.  

 

REGISTRATION OF INTERMEDIARIES  

 

Section  12  of  the  SEBI  Act  prohibits  a  stock  broker,  sub-broker,  share  transfer  agent, 

banker  to  an  issue,  trustee  of  trust  deed,  registrar  to  an  issue,  merchant  banker, 

underwriter,  portfolio  manager,  investment  adviser  and  such  other  intermediary  who 

may be associated with the securities market, from buying, selling or dealing in securities, 

except  under,  and  in  accordance  with,  the  conditions  of  a  certificate  of  registration 

obtained from the Board under the regulations made under the SEBI Act. Therefore, any 

intermediary  which  is  required  to  obtain  a  certificate  of  registration,  for  acting  as  an 

intermediary  in  the  securities  market  may  be  referred  to  as  an  “Intermediary”  for  the 

purpose of this Report and the proposed amendment to the Intermediaries Regulations. 

 

 

 

 
Page | - 17 -  

 

 

 

II.  NEED FOR PRESENT REVISION 

Historical Perspective 

 

In the past three decades, SEBI has notified more than a dozen regulations, each with the 

objective of regulating a different category of intermediary. The current two tier process 

of enquiry proceedings against intermediaries in the Intermediaries Regulations traces 

its origin to the procedure contemplated in the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-Brokers)  Regulations,  1992  (“Stock  Broker  Regulations”).  In 

2002,  provisions  similar  to  those  contained  in  Stock  Brokers  Regulations  and  other 

respective Regulations pertaining to other intermediaries were amended by the Securities 

and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and 

Imposing  Penalty)  Regulations,  2002,  to  enable  SEBI  to  take  action  on  the  basis  of 

investigation and inspection report.  

 

However, later in 2008, it was decided that since there is a considerable overlap in the 

regulations  pertaining  to  intermediaries,  a  consolidated  regulation  could  be  enacted. 

Eventually,  when  SEBI  published  Intermediaries  Regulation  in  2008,  due  various 

practical difficulties, only the process for holding enquiry against intermediaries by the 

Board  was  notified.  Even  though  12  years  have  elapsed  since  the  publication  of 

Intermediaries regulations, most  of its provisions have not come into effect. Thus, the 

Committee feels that Intermediaries Regulations need to be examined from the viewpoint 

of their practical applicability. 

 

Pendency of Enquiry Proceedings 

 

The  SEBI  Annual  Report  details  the  data  pertaining  to  actions  initiated  by  the  Board 

including 

initiation  of  enquiries  and  adjudication  proceedings  against  various 

intermediaries.  As  per  the  latest  data  available  with  SEBI,  almost  408  enquiry 

proceedings are pending with the Board.  

 

 
Page | - 18 -  

 

 

Two Tier Enquiry Proceedings: 

Enquiry proceedings are initiated against the registered intermediaries and involve a two-

step process under the Intermediaries Regulations. The two tier enquiry system has been 

borrowed from the Enquiry Regulations which in turn was borrowed from the respective 

regulations  pertaining  to  various  intermediaries.  In  the  first  step,  the  fact-finding 

proceedings are conducted by the DA, and in the second step, quasi-judicial proceedings 

are conducted before the DM of the Board on the basis of the recommendation of the DA. 

A two stage process adds to the time required in disposing off the proceedings.  

 

Time Taken for disposal of enquiry cases 

The analysis of the time taken between the date of action approved for each proceeding 

to the date of the final order passed in an enquiry case during the financial year 2018-19 

and the current  financial  year, indicates that considerable amount  of time is taken for 

completion  of  a  case  which  hampers  the  regulatory  effectiveness  of  the  enquiry 

proceedings. 

 

In light of the above, it becomes imperative to examine options to ensure that the time 

consumed in the enquiry proceedings be reduced and that the same may be effected by 

simple and necessary amendments to the applicable provisions. 

 

 

 

 
Page | - 19 -  

 

 

III.  REGULATION OF INTERMEDIARIES – GLOBAL SCENARIO 

 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

 

In the United States, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (US-SEC) is required 

to  register  broker  dealers  under  section  15  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act,  1934.  The 

primary regulation of broker dealers is done through the Financial Industry Regulatory 

Authority, Inc. (FINRA), a private corporation, acting as a self-regulatory organization 

(SRO) for intermediaries. It is a non-governmental organization that regulates member 

brokerage  firms  and  exchange  markets.  The  government  agency  which  acts  as  the 

ultimate  regulator  of  the  securities  industry,  including  FINRA,  is  the  US-SEC.  Other 

intermediaries such as Investment Advisers are required to be registered with the USA 

SEC  under  the  Investment  Advisers  Act,  1940  and  Investment  companies  under  the 

Investment Company Act of 1940. FINRA provides the first line of oversight for broker-

dealers and the first line of defense for investors by virtue of its comprehensive oversight 

program.  FINRA  regulates  both  the  firms  and  professionals  selling  securities  in  the 

United States and the U.S. securities markets. In this capacity, FINRA writes and enforces 

its own rules, as well as enforces federal securities rules and laws.1 

 

FINRA  has  the  authority  to fine,  suspend  or  bar  brokers  and  firms  from  the  industry. 

FINRA may also take disciplinary action through two separate procedures: a settlement 

or a formal complaint. With a settlement, a firm or broker may opt to settle with FINRA 

through a Letter of Acceptance, Waiver and Consent (AWC).2 

 

When FINRA determines that a violation of the securities rules has occurred and formal 

disciplinary action is necessary, the Enforcement Department or the Market Regulation 

Department files a complaint with the Office of Hearing Officers (OHO). 

 

                                                           
1 <http://www.finra.org/industry/oversight> 
2 <http://www.finra.org/industry/enforcement> 

 

 
Page | - 20 -  

 

The OHO is an office of impartial adjudicators of disciplinary cases brought by FINRA’s 

Department  of  Enforcement  against  FINRA  members.  The  OHO  maintains  strict 

independence from FINRA's regulatory programs and is physically separated from other 

FINRA departments. 

 

The OHO arranges a three-person Panel to hear the case. The Panel is chaired by a hearing 

officer who is an employee of the OHO. The Chief Hearing Officer appoints two industry 

panellists,  drawn  primarily  from  a  pool  of  current  and  former  securities  industry 

members of FINRA's District Committees, as well as its Market Regulation Committee, 

former  members  of  FINRA's  National  Adjudicatory Council  (NAC)  and  former  FINRA 

Governors. 

 

Hearing  officers  are  not  involved  in  the  investigative  process.  Employment  protection 

exist  for  hearing  officers  to  further  ensure  their  independence.  They  may  not  be 

terminated  except  by  the  FINRA  Chief  Executive  Officer,  with  a  right  to  appeal  to  the 

Audit  Committee of  FINRA's  Board  of  Governors.3  At  the  hearing,  the  parties  present 

evidence for the panel to determine whether a firm or individual has engaged in conduct 

that  violates  FINRA  rules,  SEC  regulations  or  federal  securities  laws.  In  reaching  its 

decision, the hearing panel also considers previous decisions of the court, the SEC, and 

the National Adjudicatory Council (NAC) to determine if violations occurred. The NAC is 

the national committee which reviews initial decisions rendered in FINRA disciplinary 

and membership proceedings. 

 

For each case, the hearing panel issues a written decision explaining the reasons for its 

ruling  and  consults  the  FINRA  Sanction  Guidelines  to  determine  the  appropriate 

sanctions if violations have occurred. FINRA may also, when feasible and appropriate, 

order firms and individuals to provide restitution to harmed customers. 

 

 

                                                           
3 Ibid. 
 

 

 
Page | - 21 -  

 

Appeal Process 

Under  FINRA's  disciplinary  procedures,  a  firm  or  individual  has  the  right  to  appeal  a 

hearing  panel  decision  to  the  NAC  or  the  NAC  may  on  its  own  initiate  a  review  of  a 

decision.  

 

While a decision is on appeal, the sanction is not actively enforced against the firm or 

individual. The NAC may affirm, dismiss, modify, or reverse any finding, or remand for 

further  proceedings.  The  NAC  may  affirm,  modify,  reverse,  increase,  or  reduce  any 

sanction or impose any other fitting sanction.4 

 

On  appeal,  the  NAC  will  determine  if  a  hearing  panel's  findings  were  legally  correct, 

factually supported and consistent  with the  Sanction Guidelines of  FINRA. Unless the 

Board  of  Governors  of  FINRA  decides  to  review  the  NAC's  appellate  decision,  that 

decision  represents  FINRA's  final  action.  A  firm  or  individual  can  appeal  FINRA's 

decision to the SEC and then to federal court.5 

 

The amount of fines in 2018 that the FINRA Enforcement Division ordered against its 

member  firms  increased  slightly  to  $74  million  from  $68  million  in  2017.  While  the 

amount increased nearly nine percent, the total number of fines decreased to 209 in 2018, 

compared to 318 in 2017.6 

 

THE UNITED KINGDOM  

 

The  Financial  Services  and  Markets  Act,  2000  of  the  United  Kingdom  created  the 

Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as a regulator for insurance, investment business and 

banking, and the Financial Ombudsman Service. The FCA operates independently of the 

UK Government, and is financed by charging fees to the members of the financial services 

industry.  The  FCA  regulates  financial  firms  providing  services  to  consumers  and 

                                                           
4 <http://www.finra.org/industry/nac> 
5 <http://www.finra.org/industry/decisions> 
6 <https://www.acacompliancegroup.com/blog/summary-finra-regulatory-actions-2018> 
 

 

 
Page | - 22 -  

 

maintains the integrity of the financial markets in the United Kingdom. It focuses on the 

regulation  of  conduct  by  both  retail  and  wholesale  financial  services  firms.  Like  its 

predecessor (the FSA), the FCA is structured as a company limited by guarantee.  

 

Section 42 of the Financial Services and Markets Act, 2000 provides that the FCA may 

grant permission to the applicant to carry on regulated activities. Granting permission in 

UK is akin to providing registration under section 12 of the SEBI Act, 1992.  

 

Section 42 of the Financial Services and Markets Act, 2000 reads as follows: 

“Permission Giving  

S. 42.—(1) “The applicant” means an applicant for permission under permission 

section 40. 

(2)  The  Authority  may  give  permission  for  the  applicant  to  carry  on  the 

regulated activity or activities to which his application relates or such of them 

as may be specified in the permission. 

(3) If the applicant— 

(a)  in  relation  to  a  particular  regulated  activity,  is  exempt  from  the 

general prohibition as a result of section 39(1) or an order made under 

section 38(1), but 

(b) has applied for permission in relation to another regulated activity, the 

application  is  to  be  treated  as  relating  to  all  the  regulated  activities 

which, if permission is given, he will carry on. 

(4) If the applicant— 

(a)  in  relation  to  a  particular  regulated  activity,  is  exempt  from  the 

general prohibition as a result of section 285(2) or (3), but 

(b) has applied for permission in relation to another regulated activity, the 

application  is  to  be  treated  as  relating  only  to  that  other  regulated 

activity. 

(5) If the applicant— 

(a) is a person to whom, in relation to a particular regulated activity, the 

general prohibition does not apply as a result of Part XIX, but 

 
Page | - 23 -  

 

 

 

(b) has applied for permission in relation to another regulated activity, the 

application  is  to  be  treated  as  relating  only  to  that  other  regulated 

activity. 

(6) If it gives permission, the Authority must specify the permitted regulated 

activity  or  activities,  described  in  such  manner  as  the  Authority  considers 

appropriate. 

(7) The Authority may— 

(a) incorporate in the description of a regulated activity such limitations 

(for example as to circumstances in which the activity may, or may not, 

be carried on) as it considers appropriate; 

(b) specify a narrower or wider description of regulated activity than that 

to which the application relates; 

(c) give permission for the carrying on of a regulated activity which is not 

included among those to which the application relates.” 

Section 40 of the Financial Services and Markets Act, 2000 provides that an application 

for permission to carry on one or more regulated activities may be made to the FCA by—  

(i) an individual; 

(ii) a body corporate; 

(iii) a partnership; or 

(iv) an unincorporated association. 

 

Further section 45 of the Financial Services and Markets Act, 2000 provides that if the 

authorised person is failing or is likely to fail to satisfy the condition of permission, the 

Authority may vary or cancel the permission. Furthermore, section 56 specifies that if the 

Authority is satisfied that an individual is not a fit and proper person to perform functions 

in relation to a regulated activity carried on by an authorised person, the Authority may 

prohibit any individual from performing as a specified function.  

 

 

 

 

 
Page | - 24 -  

 

Hearings and Appeals 

The order passed by the Authority may be referred to the Financial Service and Markets 

Tribunal  (the  Tribunal).  During  the  period  that  the  reference  is  pending  before  the 

Tribunal,  the  Authority  cannot  take  the  action  specified  in  the  decision  notice.  On 

determining a reference, the Tribunal is required to remit the matter to the Authority with 

such  directions  (if  any)  as  the  Tribunal  considers  appropriate  for  giving  effect  to  its 

determination. Further, a party to a reference to the Tribunal may appeal to the Court of 

Appeal  or in Scotland, to the Court of Sessions. After taking a leave from the Court  of 

Appeal or House of Lord (now UK Supreme Court) the decision of the Court of Sessions 

or Court of Appeal may be appealed.  

 

 

 
Page | - 25 -  

 

 

IV.  KEY RECOMMENDATIONS AND RATIONALE 

PROPOSED PROCESS FOR ENQUIRY PROCEEDINGS 

  

Current provisions 

In the present system, the first tier of enquiry is conducted by the DA. As per regulation 

24(1) of the Intermediaries Regulations, when the DM (Chairman or a WTM of the Board 

designated for the purpose) is satisfied that an intermediary has failed to comply with the 

conditions  subject  to  which  a  certificate  of  registration  was  issued  to  him  or  has 

contravened  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  securities  laws,  or  any  directions  or  circular 

issued thereunder, the DM may appoint an officer not below the rank of a Division Chief, 

as a DA. The regulations further provide that pursuant to the appointment, the DA shall 

issue  a  notice  to  the  concerned  intermediary  requiring  it  to  show  cause  as  to  why  the 

certificate of registration granted to it should not be suspended or cancelled or why any 

other action provided in the Intermediaries Regulations should not be taken against the 

noticee. Upon conclusion of the enquiry the DA, submits a recommendation to the DM 

on the basis of material available before him. 

 

On  receipt  of  the  recommendation 

from  the  DA,  the  DM  considers  these 

recommendations and issues a show cause notice to the noticee enclosing a copy of the 

report submitted by the DA calling upon him to submit its reply as to why an order as 

deemed appropriate should not be issued. After considering the report of the DA, the reply 

of the noticee and other material available before it, and providing the person with an 

opportunity of being heard, the DM passes the final order.  

 

The  two  tier  proceedings  in  the  Intermediaries  Regulations  traces  its  origin  to  the 

procedure contemplated in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock Brokers 

and  Sub-Brokers)  Regulations,  1992  (“Stock  Broker  Regulations”).  It  is  also  worth 

mentioning that the provision dealing with investigation under section 11C was inserted 

in the SEBI Act w.e.f. October 29, 2002 vide the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Amendment) Act, 2002.  

 

 
Page | - 26 -  

 

 

The Stock Broker Regulations in its original form, even before its amendment vide the 

Enquiry Regulations, 2002, provided for inspection of Stock Brokers. Further, regulation 

23  of  Stock  Broker  Regulations  provided  that  after  considering  the  explanation  of  the 

stock  broker  on  the  findings  of  inspection  report,  the  Board  may  call  upon  the  stock-

broker to take such measures as the Board may deem fit in the interest of the securities 

market7. After the amendment of these regulations in 2002, regulation 23 provided that 

the Board shall, after considering the inspection or investigation report, take such action 

as it may deem fit and appropriate, including action under the Enquiry Regulations (now 

chapter V of the Intermediaries Regulations). Similar amendments were also carried out 

in the other regulations dealing with the respective intermediaries.  

 

Accordingly,  it  may  be  inferred  that  before  the  year  2002,  when  investigation  and 

inspection reports may not necessarily have been the basis for action in case of default by 

the intermediaries, it was logical to have in place the two tier enquiry for taking action in 

case of default by the intermediaries where, the first tier enquiry served as a primary fact 

finding  authority  collecting  documents  and  evidence,  as  well  as  for  analysis  of  all  the 

relevant  facts  of  the  case  and  submissions  made  by  the  Intermediaries.8  It  is  also 

noteworthy  that  the  notice  issued  by  the  enquiry  officer  under  regulation  28  (since 

repealed)  of  the  Stock  Broker  Regulations  to  call  for  explanation,  reply,  information, 

documents or evidences, was not a show cause notice. Instead the report of the enquiry 

was used to form the basis of the show-cause notice issued by the Board which constituted 

the first step of the second tier enquiry process. After considering the reply to the show-

                                                           
7 Regulation 23 of the Stock Broker Regulations before September 27, 2002 read as follows: 
Communication of findings etc. 
23. (1) The Board shall after consideration of the inspection report communicate the findings of the stock-broker to 
give in an opportunity of being heard before the action is taken by the Board on the findings of the inspecting 
authority. 
(2) On the receipt of the explanations, if any, from the stock – broker, the Board may call upon the stock-broker to 
take such measure as the Board may deem fit in the interest of the securities market and for due compliance with the 
provisions of the Act, rules and regulations. 
8 Read now repealed regulation 28 and 29 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock Broker and Sub-
Broker) Regulations, 1992.  
 

 

 
Page | - 27 -  

 

cause notice, if received, the Board was mandated to pass such orders as it deemed fit in 

the second tier process. 

 

It is observed that although provisions similar to those contained in regulation 23 of Stock 

Brokers Regulations and other respective Regulations pertaining to other intermediaries, 

were amended by the Enquiry Regulations, enabling SEBI to take action on the basis of 

investigation  and  inspection  report,  the  same  two  tier  enquiry  process  as  originally 

contained  in  the  regulations  pertaining  to  the  respective  intermediaries  was  carried 

forward to the Enquiry Regulations.  

 

However,  when  in  2008,  the  Intermediaries  Regulations  replaced  the  Enquiry 

Regulations, the two tier enquiry procedure was once again adopted, albeit with certain 

modifications such that regulation 25 of the Intermediaries Regulations mandates both 

the  DA  and  the  DM  to  issue  show-cause  notices.  That  is  even  after  submission  of  the 

report by the DA, the DM was once again required to issue a show cause notice to the 

entity, granting personal hearing during which time the DM is required to consider the 

submissions made by the intermediary.  

 

Given the time consumed in the duplication of the process even without a cost benefit 

analysis  of  the  process,  the  Committee  is  of  the  opinion  that  such  a  two  tier  enquiry 

process does not add much value and in fact causes further delays in the completion of 

the enquiry proceedings.  

 

Most of the enquiry matters originate post the inspection or investigation processes. Only 

after analysis of the facts and laws, does the Board determine if it is a fit case to initiate 

enquiry proceedings.  

 

The present two-stage inquiry envisages a process similar to that followed in a ‘domestic 

inquiry’  by  an  employer  against  an  employee.  Such  long  winding  procedures  are 

acceptable  in  employment  matters  since  the  employer  may  like  to  grant  the employee 

maximum opportunities to explain the alleged misconduct.  

 

 
Page | - 28 -  

 

 

In the context of the securities markets, an enquiry proceeding against the intermediary 

is recommended  after a first-level investigation or inspection has already been carried 

out. Hence, adopting a long winding process as in a domestic inquiry to enquiry against 

market intermediaries may unduly work against public interest with the enquiry losing 

relevance over the period of time in which it is conducted and finally concluded. 

 

However, a two tier enquiry does have certain advantages such that it entails a deeper 

examination  of  facts  and  applicable  laws  which  may  presumably  lead  to  better 

dispensation of justice. The Committee examined the possibility of proposing continuing 

with a two tier enquiry system for the intermediaries which handle funds of clients, and a 

single tier enquiry system for the intermediaries which do not handle funds of clients. 

However,  with  the  increase  in  various  categories  of  intermediaries  recognised  by  the 

Board (such as research analysts and investment advisers) it may not be advisable to clog 

the enforcement mechanism by continuing with the two tier enquiry mechanism only for 

a certain class of intermediaries. The Committee considered the proposal that the two tier 

mechanism  for  intermediaries  which  do  not  handle  funds  of  the  clients  namely,  share 

transfer  agent,  registrars  to  an  issue,  merchant  bankers,  underwriters,  investment 

advisors  and  credit  rating  agencies  may  be  moved  to  the  one  tier  enquiry  process. 

However, the Committee is of the view that such a classification may not be a reasonable 

classification and provide a potential ground for challenge before a Court of Law. 

 

Therefore, the Committee then considered the proposal for a two tier enquiry process of 

registration for intermediaries to be replaced with an enquiry process, as is the case in 

Adjudication or section 11/11B proceedings such that the person authorized to conduct 

such single tier enquiry be called “Enquiry Authority”. The Board may appoint any officer 

not below the rank of Division Chief to be an “Enquiry Authority” who would be equal or 

senior in rank to the officer, to whom the power to grant registration to such intermediary, 

has  been  delegated  by  the  Board.  In  case of  multiplicity  of  proceedings,  a  single  stage 

inquiry  would  also  enable  the  same  authority  to  be  appointed  for  various  single-stage 

proceedings which would allow simultaneous and expeditious disposal of such cases since 

 

 
Page | - 29 -  

 

the grounds of inquiry in multiple proceedings would remain the same, but the sanction 

to be imposed would be different.  

 

After considerable debate on the merits of the processes discussed above, the Committee 

arrived at the view that the process may be simply reworked by reducing the time taken 

in  concluding  the  proceedings  without  compromising  application  of  the  principles  of 

natural  justice  or  any  of  the  process  envisaged  therein.  This  could  be  enabled  by 

completion of all processes at one level followed by the submission of the report to the 

DM. Thereafter, the DM may grant opportunity of written representation to the noticee, 

pursuant to which he may pass the final order. 

 

RECOMMENDATION No. 1 

The Committee noted that the Intermediaries Regulations do not mandate the DA 

to  grant  personal  hearing  to  the  noticee.  As  per  the  present  scheme  in  the 

Intermediaries Regulations, after the show cause notice is issued by the DA, if the 

noticee  does  not  reply  to  the  show  cause  notice,  the  DA  may  proceed  with  the 

matter  ex-parte  after  recording  the  reasons  for  doing  so  and  make  suitable 

recommendations.  On  the  other  hand,  on  receipt  of  the  report  recommending 

measures  from  the  DA,  the  DM  is  required  to  issue  a  show  cause  notice  to  the 

noticee and only after providing them with an opportunity of being heard, does the 

DM pass an appropriate order.  

 

Since the opportunity of personal hearing is granted by the DM, issues relating to 

inspection of documents and/or cross-examination increases at this stage of the 

enquiry proceeding. Currently only four WTMs (who also function as the DM) have 

been appointed to the Board by the Central Government. Due to such work getting 

concentrated before the WTMs, the chances of more time being consumed at the 

second  tier  of  enquiry  becomes  high.  On  the  other  hand,  the  Board  is  not 

constrained by the number of officers who may be appointed as a DA.  

 

 

 
Page | - 30 -  

 

 

 

 

In  light  of  these  constraints,  it  is  proposed  to  provide  for  the  opportunity  of 

personal hearing to be given by the DA and not by the DM.  

 

The  Committee also  notes  that  judicial  processes differ  from the  administrative 

adjudicatory  process  in  an  important  aspect.  While  the  judicial/quasi-judicial 

authority  is  exclusively  engaged  in  adjudication,  the  administrator–adjudicator 

discharges  adjudicatory  functions  along  with  other  administrative  duties. 

Similarly,  in  the  case  of  WTMs  who  apart  from  adjudicating  as  the  DM  also 

discharge other administrative functions.  

It has however been experienced that pure institutional decisions give rise to two 

main issues.9 Firstly, the authorship of such a decision may not be known as it is 

reached through several officers in the concerned department. Secondly, there may 

be divisions in the decision-making process in that  while one person may hear, 

another may decide.  

The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the matter of Travancore Rayons Vs India10 held 

that the procedural safeguards in case of an institutional decision should be such 

that the party affected is informed of the official who has considered the matter. 

The  Committee  notes  that  this  requirement  is  fulfilled  by  the  Intermediaries 

Regulations  and  hence  keeping  the  same  in  mind,  the  Committee  recommends 

similar amendments to the Intermediaries Regulations.  

The decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Gullapalli Nagewara Rao vs. A. P. 

State Road Transport Corporation11 that personal hearing enables the authority 

concerned to watch the demeanour of the witnesses and clear up any doubts during 

the course of the argument and of the party appearing to persuade the authority by 

reasoned argument to accept their point of view is also noted by the Committee. If 

                                                           
9 M P Jain & S N Jain, Principles of Administrative Law, Fourth Edition, p . 273 
10 A.I.R. 1971 S.C. 862 
11 A.I.R. 1959 S.C. 308 

 

 
Page | - 31 -  

 

 

 

one person hears and another decides, then a personal hearing would become a 

mere formality. Therefore, it has to be ensured that the opportunity of personal 

hearing by the DM entails a reasonable must grant an effective opportunity to the 

noticee  to  defend  his  case  and  the  same  may  be  effected  by  way  of  a  written 

representation, which is to be considered before passing of the final order in the 

case.  

Such a proposal emanates from the principle that oral hearing is not essential to 

comply with the principles of natural justice which do not necessarily predicate an 

oral  hearing  to  be  provided  unless  the  context  requires  otherwise.12  The  only 

requirement of natural justice in such cases is that the quasi-judicial bodies do not 

arrive  at  adverse  finding  without  giving  the  noticee  an  effective  opportunity  of 

defending any  allegations. Such an opportunity may be effected even through a 

written  representation.  The  opportunity  of  making  a  written  representation  is 

equally efficacious and also amounts to a hearing. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in 

several judgements has reiterated its view that in quasi-judicial proceedings, an 

opportunity to make representation need  not necessarily be provided by way of 

personal hearing; it can also be done by granting an opportunity to make written 

representation.13 

The  right  of  oral  or  personal  hearing  is,  however,  often  demanded  by  affected 

persons since it is believed that they are in a position to effectively persuade the 

authorities  to  countenance  their  point  of  view.  Occasionally,  not  affording  oral 

hearing  could  itself  prejudice  the  proceedings  and  render  the  order  invalid  or 

ineffective.14 Yet oral hearing is not mandatory, except in cases where a provision 

of law or a rule specifically provides for an opportunity of oral hearing. Under those 

circumstances the oral hearing is required to be provided in strict compliance of 

the law.  

                                                           
12 Gopalan Vs. Madras. AI.R., 1960 S.C. 
13 Madya Pradesh Industries Ltd. Vs Union of India and others 1966 AIR 671, 1966 SCR (1) 466 
14 M. Sadasiva Sekhar vs District Collector and Ors. 203 (2) ALD843, 2003 (3) ALT 68 

 

 
Page | - 32 -  

 

 

 

After considering all the above and the various judgments of the Hon’ble Supreme 

Court, the Committee is of the view that in a two tier process as specified in the 

Intermediaries Regulations, the requirement of natural justice stands adequately 

complied with if the DA grants an opportunity to make written representation and 

grant  an  oral  hearing  to  the  noticee  and  the  DM  grants  an  opportunity  to  the 

noticee  to  only  submit  written  representation  after  providing  the  copy  of  the 

Report of the DA.  

 

The  Committee  is  also  cognizant  of  the  fact  that  a  WTM,  in  the  course  of 

institutional decision-making process also discharges duties as a DM. Due to the 

change in WTMs, who are appointed by Central Government from time to time, a 

fresh oral hearing needs to be granted to the noticee by the new DM in case the 

erstwhile DM was unable to pass the order before demitting office. The aforesaid 

proposal  would,  thus,  enable  SEBI  to  conclude  enquiry  proceedings  in  a  timely 

manner  by  avoiding  grant  of  multiple  oral  hearings.  A  written  representation 

would  enable  the  other  DM  to  pass  final  orders  without  delaying  the  enquiry 

proceedings on account of granting fresh oral hearing to the Noticee. 

  

Considering the above factors, the Committee recommends the following process 

to  be  adopted  in  all  enquiry  proceedings  before  the  Board,  which  would  entail 

suitable amendments to the Intermediaries Regulations: 

I.  The  process  related  to  granting  of  an  opportunity  of  personal  hearing, 

inspection  of  documents,  cross-examination  etc.,  shall  be  granted  by  the 

DA.  After  conducting  a  detailed  enquiry  and  after  considering  all  the 

representation(s) and the facts and circumstances of the case, the DA may 

submit a report recommending appropriate action as contemplated in the 

Intermediaries Regulations. 

II.  Upon receipt of the report of the DA, the DM may issue a show cause notice 

calling upon the noticee to submit within 21 days, a suitable response as to 

why action as recommended by the DA or any other action as contemplated 

 
Page | - 33 -  

 

 

in  the  Intermediaries  Regulations  may  not  be  initiated.  The  show  cause 

notice  may  also  clearly  specify  that  no  opportunity  of  personal  hearing 

would  be  granted  and  all  the  submission,  if  any,  may  be  made  only  in  a 

written form.  

 

FACTORS TO BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT BY THE DESIGNATED AUTHORITY 

 

Current provisions 

Section 15J of the SEBI Act, provides for relevant factors to be taken into account by the 

adjudicating officer while adjudging quantum of penalty under section 15-I of the SEBI 

Act. Such a provision acts as a pole star while deciding the quantum of penalty and guides 

the  officer  in  prudently  exercising  the  discretion  vested  upon  him  by  the  statute.  The 

Intermediaries Regulations do not have any provision similar to that of section 15J of the 

SEBI Act to guide the DA and DM while exercising discretion to determine issuance of 

suitable direction as contemplated in the Intermediaries Regulations.  

 

 

RECOMMENDATION No. 2: 

 

In view of the above discussion, the Committee also recommends the incorporation of a 

provisions similar to section 15J of the SEBI Act in the Intermediaries Regulations. The 

DA and the DM, as the case may be, while making the recommendation and passing the 

order  under  the  Intermediaries  Regulations,  shall  have  due  regard  to  the  following 

factors, namely, —  

 

 

the amount of disproportionate gain or unfair advantage, wherever quantifiable, 

made as a result of the default;  

the amount of loss caused to an investor or group of investors as a result of the 

default;  

the repetitive nature of the default; and  

 
  any other relevant and just factors. 

 

 
Page | - 34 -  

 

 

 

V.  DRAFT OF REGULATIONS 

The  Committee  recommends  that  regulation  25,  26,  27  and  28  of  Chapter  V  of  the 

Intermediaries Regulations may be substituted with the following regulations, which may 

be made applicable upon the notification of the proposed amendments, - 

 

 

 

CHAPTER V 

Holding of enquiry. 

25.  (1)  The  Designated  Authority  shall  issue  a  notice  to  a  person  against  whom  an 

enquiry has been initiated, to show cause as to why the action, as contemplated against 

such person should not be recommended. 

(2) The noticee shall be called upon to submit, within a period to be specified in the 

notice, not exceeding twenty-one days from the date of service thereof, a written reply 

to the notice, along with documentary evidence, if any, in support of such written reply: 

Provided  that  the  Designated  Authority  may  extend  the  time  specified  in  the 

notice  for  sufficient  grounds  shown  by  the  noticee  and  after  recording  reasons  in 

writing. 

(3) Every notice under sub-regulation (1) shall specify the contravention alleged to have 

been committed by the noticee by indicating the provisions of the securities laws or the 

direction or the order of the Board alleged to have been contravened. 

(4)  There  shall  be  annexed  to  the  notice  issued  under  sub-  regulation  (1),  copies  of 

documents relied upon by the Board along with the extracts of relevant portions of the 

reports containing the findings arrived at in an inquiry, investigation or inspection, if 

any. 

 (5) If the noticee demands inspection of such documents within the period specified in 

sub-regulation (2) and the designated authority is of the opinion that the same may be 

granted, then the DA may issue a notice fixing a date of inspection of documents for the 

same within thirty days from the date of receipt of such request. 

 
Page | - 35 -  

 

 

(6) If the Designated Authority is satisfied that there is a need to grant an opportunity 

of personal hearing, then the DA may issue or cause to issue a notice scheduling a date 

for hearing the noticee or authorised representative: 

Provided that no opportunity of oral hearing may be granted in the cases where 

the noticee is alleged to have failed to pay the registration fee or any other applicable 

fees to the Board as per the provisions of the relevant regulations or the noticee has 

been declared a wilful defaulter or a fugitive economic offender. 

(7) If the noticee does not reply to the notice or fails to appear on the scheduled hearing 

date and the designated authority is satisfied that sufficient opportunity has been given 

to the noticee, the designated authority may conclude the proceedings after, recording 

the reasons for doing so, on the basis of the material available on record. 

 

Recommendation of action  

26. (1) After considering the reply, if any, and other material available on record, the 

Designated  Authority  may  by  way  of  a  report,  where  the  facts  so  warrant, 

recommend –  

(i) cancellation of the certificate of registration;  

(ii) suspension of the certificate of registration for a specified period;  

(iii) prohibition of the noticee from taking up any new assignment or contract or 

launching a new scheme for the period specified in the order;  

(iv) debarment of an officer of the noticee from being employed or associated with 

any  registered  intermediary  or  other  person  associated  with  the  securities 

market for the period specified in the order;  

(v) debarment of a branch or an office of the noticee from carrying out activities 

for the specified period;  

(vi) issuance of a regulatory censure to the noticee: 

Provided that in respect of the same certificate of registration, not more than 

five  regulatory  censures  under  these  regulations  may  be  recommended  to  be 

issued to any intermediary, thereafter, the action as detailed in clause (i) to (v) of 

this sub-regulation may be considered. 

 
Page | - 36 -  

 

 

 (2) The designated authority shall endeavour to submit the report within one hundred 

and twenty days from the date of receipt of reply to the notice or date of last personal 

hearing, whichever is later.  

  

Order 

27.  (1)  On  receipt  of  the  report  containing  the  measures  recommended  by  the 

designated authority, the designated member shall issue notice to the noticee enclosing 

therein a copy of the report submitted by the designated authority and call upon the 

noticee  to  reply  to  the  notice,  in  writing,  as  to  why  the  action  recommended  by  the 

designated authority considers appropriate, should not be taken.  

(2) The noticee shall submit, within a period as specified in the notice, but not exceeding 

twenty-one days from the date of service thereof, a written reply to the notice, along 

with documentary evidence, if any, in support of such written reply. 

Provided that upon the request of the noticee the designated member may extend 

the time specified in the notice, after recording reasons in writing. 

Provided further that the noticee shall not have any right to seek opportunity of 

oral hearing before the designated member. 

 (3) The designated member shall after considering the written submission, if any and 

other  facts  and  circumstances  of  the  matter,  pass  an  appropriate  order  within  one 

hundred and twenty days from the date of receipt of the written reply to the notice.  

  

Factors to be taken into account. 

28. While making a recommendation or passing an order  as  under this chapter, the 

designated authority or designated member, as the case may be, shall have due 

regard to the following factors, namely, - 

(a)  the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage,  wherever 

quantifiable, made as a result of the default;  

(b) the amount of loss caused to an investor or group of investors as a result of 

the default;  

(c) the repetitive nature of the default;  

 
Page | - 37 -  

 

 

(d) any other relevant and just factors.  

The  Committee  also  notes  that  only  Chapter  V,  V-A  and  VI  of  the  Intermediaries 

Regulations  have  been  notified  till  date.  Hence  the  Committee  recommends  that  the 

Intermediaries Regulations may be replaced by new regulations which may only contain 

provisions  with  respect  to  manner  of  actions  in  case  of  defaults  by  Intermediaries,  as 

proposed below: 

 

 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA  

EXTRA-ORDINARY  

PART –III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

 

NOTIFICATION 

 

Mumbai, the ….. day of ……., 2020 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (PROCEDURE FOR 

HOLDING ENQUIRY) REGULATIONS, 2020 

 

No. ………………… In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 read with 

sub-section (3) of section 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 

1992 (15 of 1992), the Board hereby makes the following regulations, namely: -  

 

 

 
Page | - 38 -  

 

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title and commencement  

1. (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Procedure for Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020.  

(2)  They  shall  come  into  force  on  the  date  of  their  publication  in  the  Official 

Gazette.  

 

Definitions  

2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, -  

(a)   "Act" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 

(15 of 1992);  

(b)   "Board"  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

constituted under section 3 of the Act;  

(c)   "Certificate"  means  a  certificate  of  registration  granted  to  an 

intermediary under the relevant Regulations; 

(d)   “Designated Authority” means an officer of the Board and includes a 

bench of such officers;  

(e)   “Designated  Member”  means  the  Chairman  or  a  Whole  Time 

Member of the Board designated for the purpose;  

(f)   “Executive Director” means an officer of the Board who is appointed 

as such by the Board; 

(g)   “Intermediary” means a person who is required to obtain a certificate 

of  registration  from  the  Board  and  includes  an  asset  management 

company in relation to the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996, an investment manager in relation 

 
Page | - 39 -  

 

 

to  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Infrastructure 

Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014, a manager in relation to the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Real  Estate  Investment 

Trusts) Regulations, 2014, a manager in relation to the Securities and 

Exchange  Board  of 

India 

(Alternative 

Investment  Funds) 

Regulations,  2012, a clearing  member of a clearing corporation or 

clearing house, a foreign portfolio investor and a trading member of 

a  derivative  segment  or  currency  derivatives  segment  of  a  stock 

exchange. 

(h)   “Noticee” means the person to whom a notice has been issued under 

these Regulations; 

(i)   “Securities  Laws”  includes  the  Act,  the  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the Depositories Act, 1996 (22 

of 1996), and the rules or regulations or circulars or guidelines made 

thereunder and includes the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 

(18 of 2013) and the rules made thereunder to the extent administered 

by the Board. 

(2)  Words  and  expressions  used  and  not  defined  in  these  regulations,  but 

defined  in  the  securities  laws  shall  have  the  meanings  respectively  assigned  to 

them thereunder, as the case may be. 

 

 

CHAPTER II 

ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT  

Cancellation or suspension of registration and other actions  

3. Where any registered intermediary or its sponsor, trustee, partners, directors or 

 
Page | - 40 -  

 

 

officers, as the case may be,  

(a)   fails to comply with any conditions subject to which a certificate of 

registration has been granted;  

(b)   contravenes or attempts to contravene or abet the contravention of any 

of the provisions of the securities laws or fails to comply with any of 

the directions or orders of the Board;  

the Board may, without prejudice to any action under the securities laws, by 

an order, take action in the manner specified under these regulations.  

 

 

Appointment of the Designated Authority  

4. (1) Where it appears to the Designated Member that any person has committed 

any default as specified in regulation 3, the Designated Member may approve the 

initiation of proceedings under these regulations against such person. 

(2) The relevant Executive Director shall thereafter appoint an officer not below 

the rank of a Division Chief, as a Designated Authority:  

Provided that the Executive Director may appoint a bench of three officers, each 

of whom shall not be below the rank of a Division Chief:  

Provided further that such bench shall be presided by the senior most amongst 

them and all the decisions or recommendations of such bench shall be by way of 

majority. 

 

Holding of enquiry. 

5. (1) The Designated Authority shall issue a notice to a person against whom an 

enquiry has been initiated, to show cause as to why the action as contemplated 

against such a person should not be recommended. 

 
Page | - 41 -  

 

 

(2) The noticee shall be called upon to submit, a written reply to the notice, along 

with documentary evidence, if any, in support of such written reply within a period 

to  be  specified  in  the  notice,  not  exceeding  twenty-one  days  from  the  date  of 

service thereof: 

Provided that the Designated Authority may extend the time specified in the notice 

for sufficient grounds shown by the noticee and after recording reasons in writing. 

(3) Every notice under sub-regulation (1) shall specify the contravention alleged 

to have been committed by the noticee by indicating the provisions of the securities 

laws or the direction or the order of the Board alleged to have been contravened. 

(4) There shall be annexed to the notice issued under sub- regulation (1), copies of 

documents relied upon by the Board along with the extracts of relevant portion of 

the  reports  containing  the  findings  arrived  at  in  the  inquiry,  investigation  or 

inspection, if any. 

 (5) If the noticee seeks inspection of such documents within the period specified 

in sub-regulation (2) and the designated authority is of the opinion that the same 

may be granted, then the Designated Authority may issue a notice fixing a date for 

inspection of documents for the same within thirty days from the date of receipt of 

such request. 

(6)  If  the  Designated  Authority  is  satisfied  that  there  is  a  need  to  grant  an 

opportunity of personal hearing, then the Designated Authority may issue or cause 

to  issue  a  notice  scheduling  a  date  for  hearing  to  the  noticee  or  authorised 

representative: 

Provided that no opportunity of oral hearing may be granted in the cases arising 

out of a failure of the noticee to pay the registration fee or any other applicable 

fees to  the  Board  as per the provisions of the  relevant regulations or  where he 

noticee has been declared a wilful defaulter or a fugitive economic offender. 

 
Page | - 42 -  

 

 

(7) If the noticee does not reply to the notice or fails to appear on the scheduled 

hearing date and the Designated Authority is satisfied that sufficient opportunity 

has  been  given  to  the  noticee,  the  Designated  Authority  may  conclude  the 

proceedings, after recording the reasons for doing so, on the basis of the material 

available on record. 

 

Recommendation of action  

6. (1) After considering the reply if any and other material available on record, the 

Designated  Authority  may  by  way  of  a  report,  where  the  facts  so  warrant, 

recommend –  

(i)  

cancellation of the certificate of registration;  

(ii)  

suspension of the certificate of registration for a specified period;  

(iii)   prohibition  of  the  noticee  from  taking  up  any  new  assignment  or 

contract or launching a new scheme for the period specified in the 

order;  

 (iv)   prohibition of a branch or an office of the noticee from carrying out 

activities for the specified period;  

(v)  

issuance of a censure to the noticee: 

(2)  The  Designated  Authority  shall  endeavour  to  submit  the  report  within  one 

hundred and twenty days from the date of receipt of reply to the notice or date of 

last personal hearing, whichever is later.  

  

Order 

7. (1) Upon the receipt of the report containing the measures recommended by the 

Designated Authority, the Designated Member shall issue a notice to the noticee 

enclosing therein a copy of the report submitted by the Designated Authority and 

 
Page | - 43 -  

 

call  upon  the  noticee  to  reply  to  the  notice,  in  writing,  as  to  why  the  action 

recommended  by  the  Designated  Authority  or  any  action  as  considered 

appropriate, should not be taken.  

(2) The noticee shall submit, within a period as specified in the notice, but not 

exceeding twenty-one days from the date of service thereof, a written reply to the 

notice, along with documentary evidence, if any, in support of such a written reply. 

Provided that upon the request of the noticee, the Designated Member may extend 

the time specified in the notice, after recording the reasons in writing. 

Provided further that the noticee shall not have any right to seek an opportunity of 

oral hearing before the Designated Member. 

(3)  After  considering  the  written  submission,  if  any  and  the  other  facts  and 

circumstances of the matter, the Designated Member shall endeavour, within one 

hundred and twenty days from the date of receipt of the written reply to the notice, 

to pass an appropriate order.  

  

Factors to be taken into account 

8. While making a recommendation or passing the order, the Designated Authority 

or Designated Member, as the case may be, shall have due regard to the following 

factors, namely, - 

(a) the amount of disproportionate gain or unfair advantage, wherever quantifiable, 

made as a result of the default;  

(b) the amount of loss caused to an investor or group of investors as a result of the 

default;  

(c) the repetitive nature of the default;  

(d) any other relevant and just factors. 

 

 

 
Page | - 44 -  

 

 

Surrender of any certificate of registration.  

9. (1) Any person, who has been granted a certificate of registration under the Act 

or  the  regulations  made  thereunder,  desirous  of  giving  up  its  activity  and 

surrendering the certificate, may make a request for such surrender to the Board 

and while disposing such a request, the Board shall not be bound by the procedure 

specified in the foregoing provisions of these regulations.  

(2) While disposing of a request under this regulation, the Board may require the 

concerned person to satisfy the Board with such factors as it deems fit, including 

but not limited to the following-  

(a)   the arrangements made for maintenance and preservation of records and 

other  documents  required  to  be  maintained  under  the  relevant 

regulations;  

(b)   redressal of investor grievances;  

(c)   transfer of records, funds or securities of clients;  

(d)   the arrangements made for ensuring continuity of service to clients;  

(e)   completion of pending proceedings or addressing the defaults if any.  

(3)  While  accepting  surrender,  the  Board  may  impose  upon  the  person  such 

conditions  as  it  deems  fit  for  the  protection  of  the  investors  or  clients  or  the 

securities market and such person shall comply with such conditions.  

 

Effect of suspension or cancellation or surrender  

10.  (1) On and  from  the date of cancellation or suspension  or surrender of the 

certificate, the concerned person shall - 

(i) not  represent  that  he  is  an  intermediary  while  such  suspension  is  in 

force; 

(ii) not  undertake  any  new  assignment  or  contract  or  launch  any  new 

 
Page | - 45 -  

 

 

scheme and during the period of such suspension, it shall cease to carry 

on any activity in respect of which certificate had been granted;  

(2)   On  and  from  the  date  of  cancellation  or  surrender  of  the  certificate,  the 

concerned person shall-  

(a)   return the certificate of registration so cancelled or surrendered to the 

Board  and  shall  not  represent  itself  to  be  a  holder  of  certificate  for 

carrying out the activity for which such certificate had been granted;  

(b)   cease to carry on any activity in respect of which the certificate had been 

granted;  

(c)   transfer  its  activities  to  another  person  holding  a  valid  certificate  of 

registration to carry on such activity and allow its clients or investors to 

withdraw or transfer their securities or funds held in its custody or to 

withdraw any assignment given to it, without any additional cost to such 

client or investor;  

(d)   make provisions as regards liability incurred or assumed by it;  

(e)   take  such  other  action  including  the  action  relating  to  any  records  or 

documents  and  securities  or  money  of  the  investors  that  may  be  in 

custody  or  control  of  such  person,  within  the  time  period  and  in  the 

manner, as may be required under the relevant regulations or as may be 

directed by the Board while passing order under these Regulations or 

otherwise.  

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page | - 46 -  

 

 

CHAPTER III 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Intimation of the order.  

11.  

(1) A copy of the order passed under these Regulations shall be sent to the 

noticee and shall be uploaded on the website of the Board.  

(2)   A  copy  of  the  order  shall  also  be sent  to  the  concerned  stock exchange, 

clearing corporation, depository or self-regulatory organization where the noticee 

is a member.  

 

Manner of service of notice and order and publication of order  

12. Any notice issued or order passed under these regulations may be served -  

(a)   by hand delivery to the concerned person or the duly authorized agent; 

or  

(b)   by  delivery,  at  the  address  available  on  the  records  of  the  Board  and 

addressed to that person or the duly authorized agent, by registered post 

acknowledgement due or by speed post or by such courier service or by 

fax  or  electronic  mail  service  or  by  any  other  means  of  transmission 

which affords a record of delivery;  

Provided  that  a  notice  sent  through  electronic  mail  shall  be  digitally 

signed by the competent authority.  

Provided further that bouncing of the electronic mail shall not constitute 

valid service;  

(c)   in  case  of  a  stock  broker  or  a  sub-broker  or  a  depository  participant 

through  the  concerned  stock  exchange  or  the  depository  respectively; 

and  

(d)   if it cannot be served as per clause (a) or (b) or (c), by affixing it on the 

 
Page | - 47 -  

 

 

door  or  some  other  conspicuous  part  of  the  premises  in  which  such 

person resides or is known to have last resided or carries on business or 

is known to have last carried on business or personally works for gain or 

is known to have last personally worked for gain.  

(e) 

if it cannot be affixed on the outer door as per clause (d), by publishing 

the notice in at least two newspapers, one in an English daily newspaper 

having nationwide circulation and another in a newspaper having wide 

circulation  published  in  the  language  of  the  region  where  the 

intermediary was last known to have resided or carried on business or 

personally worked for gain. 

 

Power of the Board to issue clarifications.  

13. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these 

regulations,  the  Board  may  issue  clarifications  and  guidelines  in  the  form  of 

circulars.  

 

Amendments to other regulations.  

14. The regulations specified in the Schedule I shall be amended in the manner 

and to the extent stated therein. 

 

Repeal and savings  

15. (1) With effect from the publication of these regulations in the Official Gazette, 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 

shall be repealed. 

(2)  Notwithstanding  such  repeal,  anything  done  or  any  action  taken  under  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008, 

 
Page | - 48 -  

 

 

including  an  inquiry  commenced  or  notice  issued  under  the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008,  before  the 

notification of these regulations in the Official Gazette, shall be deemed to have 

been done or taken or commenced under the corresponding provisions of these 

regulations.  

(3)  After  the  repeal  of  the  regulations  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1),  any 

reference thereto in any other regulation, guideline or circular shall be deemed to 

be a reference to the corresponding provisions of these Regulations. 

 

 

SCHEDULE I 

[See regulation 14]  

 

Amendments to other regulations 

 

1.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Bankers  to  an 

Issue) Regulations, 1994.  

(i) For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the banker to 

an issue is a fit and proper person, the Board may take into account the 

criteria specified in Schedule IV of these regulations.”  

 
Page | - 49 -  

 

 

(ii)  In regulation 22, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii)  In regulation 23, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iv) After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

(See regulations 6A)  

 Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For  the  purpose  of  determining  as  to  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

intermediary is a ‘fit and proper person’ the Board may take into account 

such  consideration  as  it  deems  fit,  including  but  not  limited  to  the 

following  criteria  in  relation  to  the  applicant  or  the  intermediary  or  its 

sponsor, trustee, partners, the principal officer, director, promoter or the 

key management persons by whatever name called–  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

 
Page | - 50 -  

 

 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

2.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Collective 

Investment Schemes) Regulations, 1999  

(i) For regulation 9A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

9A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the collective 

investment management company is a fit and proper person, the Board may 

take into account the criteria specified in Schedule X of these regulations.”  

 

(ii)  In  regulation  56,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008”, the words 

“the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding 

Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii)  In  regulation  59,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008”, the words 

“the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding 

Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 (iv) After Schedule IX, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

 

 

 

 
Page | - 51 -  

 

 

“SCHEDULE X 

(See regulations 9A)  

  

 Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For  the  purpose  of  determining  as  to  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

intermediary is a ‘fit and proper person’ the Board may take account of 

any consideration as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following 

criteria in relation to the applicant or the intermediary, its sponsor, trustee, 

partners,  the  principal  officer,  the  director,  the  promoter  and  the  key 

management persons by whatever name called–  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

 

3.  Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating 

Agencies) Regulations, 1999.  

(i) For regulation 5A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: 

-  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

5A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the credit 

rating agency is a fit and proper person the Board may take into account 

the criteria specified in Schedule IV of these regulations.” 

 
Page | - 52 -  

 

 

 

(ii)  In  regulation  33,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008”, the words 

“the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding 

Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii)  In regulation 34, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 (iv) After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

(See regulations 5A)  

  

 Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For  the  purpose  of  determining  as  to  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

intermediary is a ‘fit and proper person’ the Board may take account of 

any consideration as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following 

criteria in relation to the applicant or the intermediary, its sponsor, trustee, 

partners,  principal  officer,  the  director,  the  promoter  and  the  key 

management persons by whatever name called–  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

 
Page | - 53 -  

 

 

 

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

4.  Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Custodian of 

Securities) 

Regulations, 1996. 

 

 (i) For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: 

-  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

6A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

custodian of securities is a fit and proper person the Board may take into 

account the criteria specified in Schedule IV of these regulations.” 

(ii)  In  regulation  25,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008”, the words 

“the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding 

Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii)  In  regulation  26,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008”, the words 

“the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding 

Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 (iv) After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

 
Page | - 54 -  

 

 

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

(See regulations 6A)  

  

 Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For  the  purpose  of  determining  as  to  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

intermediary is a ‘fit and proper person’ the Board may take into account 

such  consideration  as  it  deems  fit,  including  but  not  limited  to  the 

following  criteria  in  relation  to  the  applicant  or  the  intermediary,  its 

sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the director, the promoter and 

the key management persons by whatever name called–  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

5.  Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Debenture 

Trustees) Regulations, 1993. 

 

 (i)   For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: 

-  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

6A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

debenture  trustee  is  a  fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into 

 
Page | - 55 -  

 

 

account the criteria specified in Schedule V of these regulations.” 

 (ii)  In  regulation  23,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008”, the words 

“the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding 

Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted. 

 (iii)  

In regulation 25, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and 

Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008”, the words 

“the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding 

Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted. 

 (iv) After Schedule IV, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE V 

(See regulations 6A)  

  

 Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For  the  purpose  of  determining  as  to  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

intermediary is a ‘fit and proper person’ the Board may take into  account 

such  consideration  as  it  deems  fit,  including  but  not  limited  to  the 

following  criteria  in  relation  to  the  applicant  or  the  intermediary,  its 

sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the director, the promoter and 

the key management persons by whatever name called–  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

 
Page | - 56 -  

 

 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

6. Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories and 

Participants) Regulations, 2018. 

(i)   In  regulation  88,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008”, the words 

“the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding 

Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted. 

(ii)  In  regulation  92,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008”, the words 

“the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding 

Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted. 

 

 

 

7.  Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Foreign Venture 

Capital Investors) Regulations, 2000.  

 

 (i)   For regulation 4A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person 

4A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  foreign 

venture capital investor is a fit and proper person the Board may take into 

account the criteria specified in Schedule III of these regulations.” 

(ii)  In regulation 23, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

 
Page | - 57 -  

 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted. 

 (iii) After Schedule II, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE III 

(See regulations 4A)  

  

 Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For  the  purpose  of  determining  as  to  whether  an  applicant  or  the 

intermediary is a ‘fit and proper person’ the Board may take into account 

such  consideration  as  it  deems  fit,  including  but  not  limited  to  the 

following  criteria  in  relation  to  the  applicant  or  the  intermediary,  its 

sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the director, the promoter and 

the key management persons by whatever name called–  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

8.  Amendment  to  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Alternative 

Investment Funds) Regulations, 2012. 

 

 

(i)   For sub-regulation (f) of regulation 4, the following sub-regulation shall be 

 
Page | - 58 -  

 

 

substituted, namely: -  

“(f) the applicant, Sponsor and Manager are fit and proper persons based 

on the criteria specified in Schedule IV of these Regulations.”  

 

(ii)  In regulation 35, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry)  Regulations, 

2020” shall be substituted.  

 

(iii)  In clause 7 of Form A of First Schedule, for the words “the Securities and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words 

“these Regulations” shall be substituted. 

 

(iv)  

After  Schedule  III,  the  following  Schedule  shall  be  inserted, 

namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

 (See regulations 4 (f))  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit and 

proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it 

deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in relation 

to the applicant, its sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the 

director, the promoter and the key management persons by whatever 

 
Page | - 59 -  

 

 

name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

9.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Merchant 

Bankers) Regulations, 1992.  

 

 (i)   For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the merchant 

banker is a fit and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria 

specified in Schedule IV of these Regulations.”  

 

(ii)  In regulation 33, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 

(iii) For regulation 35, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Liability for action in case of default 

35. A merchant banker who contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, 

Rules  or  Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more 

 
Page | - 60 -  

 

actions  specified  therein  including  the  action  under  Chapter  V  of  the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020.”  

 (iv)    After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

“SCHEDULE IV 

 (See regulations 6A)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit and 

proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it 

deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in relation 

to the applicant, its sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the 

director, the promoter and the key management persons by whatever 

name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

10.  Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Mutual Funds) 

Regulations, 1996.  

 

 

 (i) For regulation 7A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

 
Page | - 61 -  

 

 

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

7A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the mutual fund 

is  a  fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  criteria 

specified in Schedule XIII of these Regulations.”  

 

 (ii) In regulation 65, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii)   In regulation 68, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iv)  After Schedule XII, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

“SCHEDULE XIII 

 (See regulations 7A)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit and 

proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it 

deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in relation 

to the applicant, its sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the 

director, the promoter and the key management persons by whatever 

name called –  

 
Page | - 62 -  

 

 

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

11.   Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Portfolio 

Managers) Regulations, 2020.  

 

(i) For regulation 8, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

8.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  portfolio 

manager is  a  fit  and  proper person  the  Board  may  take into  account  the 

criteria specified in Schedule VII of these Regulations.”  

 

 (ii)  In regulation 39, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 

(iii)  In regulation 41, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted. 

 

(iv) In  clause  10.2  of  Form  A  of  First  Schedule,  for  the  words  “SEBI 

 
Page | - 63 -  

 

 

(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008” the words “these Regulations” shall be 

substituted 

 

(v)  After Schedule VI, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE VII 

 (See regulations 8)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit and 

proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it 

deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in relation 

to the applicant, its sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the 

director, the promoter and the key management persons by whatever 

name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

12. Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to 

an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993.  

 

 (i) For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

 
Page | - 64 -  

 

 

 “Criteria for fit and proper person  

 6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the registrar to an 

issue and share transfer agent is a fit and proper person the Board may take 

into account the criteria specified in Schedule IV of these Regulations.”  

 

 (ii)  In regulation 20, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 

(iii)  In regulation 22, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 

(iv)  After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

 (See regulations 6A)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit and 

proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it 

deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in relation 

to the applicant, its sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the 

director, the promoter and the key management persons by whatever 

 
Page | - 65 -  

 

 

name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

13. Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Stock Brokers 

and Sub-Brokers) Regulations, 1992.  

 (i)  For regulation 5A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

5A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  stock 

broker, sub-broker, trading member and clearing member is a fit and proper 

person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule 

VII of these Regulations.”  

(ii)  In regulation 23, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii)  In  sub-regulation  (ii)  of  regulation  25,  for  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 

2008” the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure 

for Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(iv)  In regulation 27, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

 
Page | - 66 -  

 

 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(v)  After Schedule VI, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE VII 

 (See regulations 5A)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit and 

proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it 

deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in relation 

to the applicant, its sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the 

director, the promoter and the key management persons by whatever 

name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

 

14.   Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Underwriters) 

Regulations, 1993.  

 (i)   For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person  

 
Page | - 67 -  

 

 

6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the underwriter 

is  a  fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  criteria 

specified in Schedule IV of these Regulations.”  

 (ii) In regulation 23, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

 

 (iii) For regulation 25, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely:-  

 “Liability for action in case of default. 

 25. An underwriter who contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, Rules or 

Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more  actions 

specified  therein  including  the  action  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange 

Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) Regulations, 2020.”  

 

 (iv) After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

 (See regulations 6A)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit and 

proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it 

deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in relation to 

the applicant, its sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the director, 

 
Page | - 68 -  

 

 

the promoter and the key management persons by whatever name called 

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

15.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Investment 

Advisers) Regulations, 2013.  

 

(i)   In  sub-regulation  (f)  of  regulation  6,  for  the  words  “Schedule  II  of  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 

2008”, the words “Schedule IV of these Regulations” shall be substituted 

 

(ii)  In regulation 28, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry)  Regulations, 

2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii) In sub-clause (f) of clause (6) of Form A of First Schedule, for the words 

“Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 

Regulations, 2008” the words “these Regulations” shall be substituted. 

(iv)  After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

 
Page | - 69 -  

 

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

 (See regulations 6)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit and 

proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it 

deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in relation 

to the applicant, its sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the 

director, the promoter and the key management persons by whatever 

name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

16.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Research 

Analysts) Regulations, 2014.  

 

 (i)  clause  (c)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  (2)  shall  be  substituted  as 

follows, namely,- 

“associate”  means  any  person  controlled,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  the 

intermediary,  or  any  person  who  controls,  directly  or  indirectly,  the 

intermediary,  or  any  entity  or  person  under  common  control  with  such 

intermediary, and where such intermediary is a natural person will include 

 
Page | - 70 -  

 

 

any relative of such intermediary and where such intermediary is a body 

corporate will include its group companies (as defined in the Monopolies 

and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (Act No. 54 of 1969) or any re-

enactment thereof) or companies under the same management;” 

 

(ii)  In  sub-regulation  (vii)  of  regulation 6, for the words  “Schedule  II of the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 

2008”, the words “Schedule IV of these Regulations” shall be substituted. 

 

(iii)  In regulation 32, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry)  Regulations, 

2020” shall be substituted.  

(iv) In sub-clause (e) of clause (5) of Form A of First Schedule, for the words 

“Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 

Regulations, 2008” the words “these Regulations” shall be substituted. 

 (v)  After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

 (See regulations 6)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit and 

proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it 

deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in relation 

 
Page | - 71 -  

 

 

to the applicant, its sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the 

director, the promoter and the key management persons by whatever 

name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

17.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Foreign 

Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019.  

 

 (i)  In  sub-regulation  (g)  of  regulation  4,  for  the  words  “Schedule  II  of  the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 

2008”, the words “Schedule IV of these Regulations” shall be substituted. 

 

(ii)  In clause (f) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 11, for the words “Schedule 

II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 

Regulations, 2008”, the words “Schedule IV of these Regulations” shall be 

substituted. 

(iii) In clause (h) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 22, for the words “Schedule 

II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 

Regulations, 2008”, the words “these Regulations” shall be substituted. 

(iv) In regulation 40, for the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange 

 
Page | - 72 -  

 

 

Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry) 

Regulations, 2020” shall be substituted.  

(v) In regulation 43, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words  “the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry)  Regulations, 

2020” shall be substituted.  

(vi)  After Schedule III, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

“SCHEDULE IV 

 (See regulation 4(g) and regulation 11(f))  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit and 

proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it 

deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in relation to 

the applicant, its sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the director, 

the promoter and the key management persons by whatever name called 

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 
Page | - 73 -  

 

 

 

18. Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Real 

Estate Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014.  

 

 (i)  In clause (j) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 4, for the words “Schedule 

II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 

Regulations, 2008”, the words “Schedule   VIII   of these Regulations” shall 

be substituted. 

 

(ii) In regulation 32, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry)  Regulations, 

2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii) In sub-clause (b) of clause 8 of Form A of Schedule I, for the words “the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 

2008” the words “these Regulations” shall be substituted.  

(iv)  After Schedule VII, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: 

-  

 

“SCHEDULE VIII 

 (See regulation 4(2)(j))  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit and 

 
Page | - 74 -  

 

 

proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it 

deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in relation 

to the applicant, its sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the 

director, the promoter and the key management persons by whatever 

name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

19. Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Infrastructure 

Investment Trusts) Regulations, 2014.  

 

 (i)  In clause (k) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 4, for the words “Schedule 

II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 

Regulations, 2008”, the words “Schedule   VII   of these Regulations” shall 

be substituted. 

 

(ii) In regulation 32, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”,  the  words  “the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry)  Regulations, 

2020” shall be substituted.  

(iii)  In  clause  9  of  Form  A  of  Schedule  I,  for  the  words  “the  Securities  and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008”  the  words 

 
Page | - 75 -  

 

 

 

“these Regulations” shall be substituted.  

(iv)  After Schedule VI, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: -  

 

 

 

“SCHEDULE VII 

 (See regulation 4(2)(k))  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  

For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant is a ‘fit and 

proper person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it 

deems fit, including but not limited to the following criteria in relation 

to the applicant, its sponsor, trustee, partners, principal officer, the 

director, the promoter and the key management persons by whatever 

name called –  

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  

(b) absence of convictions and extent of restraint orders;  

(c) competence including financial solvency and net worth; 

(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.” 

  (e)  absence of declaration as a fugitive offender  

 

 

************************

 
Page | - 76 -  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

PART-B 

RECOVERY OF MONIES DUE UNDER SECURITIES LAWS 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

  

 

 

I.  GENERAL 

The  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (“SEBI”  or  “the  Board”)  is  empowered  to 

impose monetary penalties on violators, issue directions for refund to investors of monies 

raised in deemed public issues and unregistered collective investment schemes and order 

disgorgements.  SEBI  is  also  empowered  to  levy  fees  on  market  intermediaries  under 

various regulations.  

 

In  case  of  default  in  the  payment  of  such  amounts,  the  SEBI  Act,  the  SCRA  and  the 

Depositories Act (collectively referred to as the securities laws) empower SEBI to recover 

such amounts in the mode and manner as derived from the provisions of the Income-tax 

Act,  1961  and  the  Rules  made  thereunder,  with  suitable  modifications  as  may  be 

necessary.  

 

However, there remain several challenges in the enforcement of such powers conferred 

upon SEBI.  

 

An enforcement system without an efficient mechanism for recovering dues may render 

an agency ineffective. In this backdrop, the reference made to the Committee to suggest 

suitable  changes,  if  any,  to  the  securities  laws  and  to  consider  the  aggregation  of  a 

comprehensive set of rules or regulations that would lay down the procedure for recovery 

and for matters incidental and connected thereto, in light of the provisions pertaining to 

recovery  of  dues  under  the  Income-tax  laws  and  other  laws,  in  the  domestic  and 

international space, prompted the Committee to examine a few of the domestic laws that 

pertain to employees’ provident funds, municipal corporation, insurance and competition 

laws as well as laws prevalent in certain foreign jurisdictions in the context of recovery of 

monies due under their securities laws.  

 

 

 
Page | 78  

 
 

The  Committee  also  held  extensive  deliberations  with  the  officers  of  the  Legal  Affairs 

Department and the Recovery and Refund Department. After considering the concerns 

raised  during  the  deliberations  and  suggestions  made  during  such  meetings,  the 

Committee  has  formulated  its  recommendations  for  improving  the  present  system  of 

recovery.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

****** 

 

 
Page | 79  

 
 

 

 

II. 

RECOVERY PROVISIONS UNDER VARIOUS LAWS 

INDIAN SCENARIO: 

 

1.  The  Committee  examined  the  following  enactments  with  provisions  for  recovery 

mechanism, as summarized below, - 

 

(a)  Under  the  Employees’  Provident  Funds  and  Miscellaneous  Provisions 

Act, 1952, the arrears of amount mentioned in section 8 (recovery of moneys due 

from employers) of the said Act shall be recovered in terms of the provisions of the 

Second and Third Schedules to the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961). The Income-

tax  Certificate  Proceedings  Rules,  1962,  as  in  force  from  time  to  time,  is  also 

applicable with necessary modifications. Thus like the SEBI Act, the aforesaid Act 

also directs the application of the provisions of Income-tax Act and the Rules for 

recovery of moneys due from employers.  

  

(b)   Under  the  state  municipal  laws  such  as  the  Chennai  City  Municipal 

Corporation Act, 1919, if any tax due from any person in India remains unpaid 

in whole or in part and if such a person leaves the country or cannot be found, the 

said tax or such part thereof that remains unpaid together with all sums payable in 

connection therewith, is recoverable as if it were an arrear of land revenue.  

 

(c)  Under section 33 of the Insurance Act, 1938, all expenses of, and incidental to, 

any investigation made under the said section shall be defrayed by the insurer, shall 

have priority over that debts due from the insurer and shall be recoverable as an 

arrear of land revenue.  

 

In  the  context  of  the  aforesaid  Acts  providing  for  amounts  due  to  be  recoverable  as 

arrears of land revenue, the following deserve to be noted:  

 

 

 
Page | 80  

 
 

2. 

The  Revenue  Recovery  Act15,  1890,  in  section  5  thereof  states  ‘Where  any  sum  is 

recoverable as an arrear of land-Revenue of any public officer other than a Collector 

or by local authority, the Collector of the district in which the office of that officer or 

authority is situate shall, on the request of the officer or authority, proceed to recover 

the sum as if it were an arrear of land-revenue which had accrued in his own district, 

and may send a certificate of the amount to be recovered to the Collector of another 

district  under  the  foregoing  provisions  of  this  Act,  as  if  the  sum  were  payable  to 

himself’.  

 

3. 

There are also State enactments for each of the States in India that provide for recovery 

of arrears of revenue due to the Government.  

 

In the matter of State Bank of Indore v. Regional Provident Fund16, the Hon’ble High 

Court of Madhya Pradesh brought out the difference between the terms “arrears of land 

revenue” and “amount recoverable as an arrear of land revenue’ -  

“5. In our judgment, the contentions advanced on behalf of the petitioner must be 

given effect to. Section 8 of the Act provides, inter alia, that any amount due from 

the  employer  in  relation  to  an  establishment  to  which  a  Scheme  under  the  Act 

applies, may, if the amount is in arrear, be recovered by the appropriate Government 

in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue. It does not say that the amount 

may be recovered as an arrear of land revenue. It merely provides the manner of the 

recovery  of  the  amount  mentioned  in Section  8.  The  manner  prescribed  for  the 

recovery of the amount as an arrear of land revenue does not convert the amount 

into an arrear of land revenue; nor does it create any charge on any property of the 

employer for the payment of the amount or give a priority in the manner of payment 

of the amount. There is no provision in the Act in regard to the creation of any such 

charge or priority for the payment of the employer's contribution.” 

 

                                                           
15 An Act to make better provision for recovering certain public demands. 
16 AIR 1965 MP 40 (DB), (1965) IILLJ 662 MP; case before the provisions of Income-tax Act and Rules could be 
applied for recovery under the EPF Act.  

 

 
Page | 81  

 
 

4. 

 Competition  Act,  2002  read  with  the  Competition  Commission  of  India  (Manner  of 

recovery of Monetary Penalty) Regulations, 2011:  

 

A.  The Competition Act, 2002 aims to prevent practices that have an adverse 

effect  on  competition,  promote  and  sustain  competition  in  markets, 

protect the interests of consumers and ensure freedom of trade carried on 

by other participants in the markets in India, and for matters connected 

therewith or incidental thereto.  

 

B.  Chapter  VI  contains  sections  42-48  that  provide  for  the  imposition  of 

monetary ‘penalties’ for various contravention.  

 

C.  Section 64 empowers the Commission to make regulations to carry out the 

purposes of the Competition Act. Under clause (g) of sub-section (2) of 

section  64,  the  Commission  is  empowered  to  make  regulations  for  the 

manner  in  which  penalty  shall  be  recovered  under  sub-section  (1)  of 

section 3917.  

                                                           
17 “Execution of orders of Commission imposing monetary penalty.  
39. (1) If a person fails to pay any monetary penalty imposed on him under this Act, the Commission shall proceed to 
recover such penalty, in such manner as may be specified by the regulations.  
 
(2) In a case where the Commission is of the opinion that it would be expedient to recover the penalty imposed under 
this Act in accordance with the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), it may make a reference to this 
effect to the concerned income-tax authority under that Act for recovery of the penalty as tax due under the said Act.  
 
(3) Where a reference has been made by the Commission under sub-section (2) for recovery of penalty, the person 
upon whom the penalty has been imposed shall be deemed to be the assessee in default under the Income Tax Act, 
1961 (43 of 1961) and the provisions contained in sections 221 to 227, 228A, 229, 231 and 232 of the said Act and 
the  Second Schedule  to  that Act  and  any  rules  made  there  under  shall,  in  so  far  as  may  be,  apply  as  if  the  said 
provisions were the provisions of this Act and referred to sums by way of penalty imposed under this Act instead of to 
income-tax and sums imposed by way of penalty, fine, and interest under the Income–tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and 
to the Commission instead of the Assessing Officer.  
Explanation 1 – Any reference to sub-section (2) or sub-section (6) of section 220 of the income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 
1961), in the said provisions of that Act or the rules made thereunder shall be construed as references to sections 43 
to 45 of this Act.  
Explanation 2 – The Tax Recovery Commissioner and the Tax Recovery Officer referred to in the Income-tax Act, 
1961  (43  of  1961)  shall  be  deemed  to  be  the  Tax  Recovery  Commissioner  and  the  Tax  Recovery  Officer  for  the 
purposes of recovery of sums imposed by way of penalty under this Act and reference made by the Commission under 
sub-section (2) would amount to drawing of a certificate by the Tax Recovery Officer as far as demand relating to 
penalty under this Act.  

 

 
Page | 82  

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

D.  The  Commission  is  empowered  to  recover  monetary  penalty  from  a 

defaulter in the manner specified by the regulations or in accordance with 

the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961. It may make a reference to the 

concerned Income-tax Authority under that Act for recovery of the penalty 

as tax due under the said Act.  

 

E.  On a reference made to the Income-tax Authority, the person upon whom 

the penalty has been imposed shall be deemed to be the assessee in default 

under the income tax laws and recovery shall be initiated accordingly.  

F.  Salient  features  of  the  Competition  Commission  of  India  (Manner  of 

recovery of Monetary Penalty) Regulations, 2011:  

a.  Regulation 4: provides for extension of time for payment of dues or 

allow payment in instalments subject to such conditions as deemed 

fit by the Commission;  

 

b.  Regulation  5:  If  the  amount  specified  in  the  demand  notice  is  not 

paid  within  the  period  specified  by  the  Commission,  the 

enterprise/defaulter shall be liable to pay simple interest at one and 

one half per cent. for every month or part of a month comprised in 

the period commencing from the day immediately after the expiry of 

the period mentioned in demand notice and ending with the day on 

which the penalty is paid.  

 

                                                           
Explanation 3 – Any reference to appeal in Chapter XVIID and the Second Schedule to the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 
of 1961), shall be construed as a reference to appeal before the Competition Appellate Tribunal under section 53B of 
this Act.” 

 

 
Page | 83  

 

 

 

 
 

 

c.  Regulation 9 (Modes of recovery):  

i.  RA person who holds or may subsequently hold money for or 

on account of the defaulter is required to pay the Commission 

and in case of failure of such person to pay the money, he shall 

also be treated in the same manner as an enterprise in default.  

 

ii.  An application is required to be made to the court  which is 

holding the custody of the defaulter’s money.  

  

iii.  If the defaulter is in a country outside India (being a country 

with  which  the  Central  Government  has  entered  into  an 

agreement for the recovery of penalty under the Act and the 

corresponding law in force in that country), the Commission 

may propose to that country to take such action thereon as the 

Commission  may  deem  appropriate  and  remit  any  sum  so 

received to the Commission.  

d.  Regulation 10 (Other modes of recovery): Recovery may also be done 

in accordance with the Rules laid down in the  Second Schedule of 

Income-tax Act, 1961 by attachment and sale of movable/immovable 

properties of the defaulting enterprise.  

  

e.  Regulations 10 and 11 - Require reference by the Commission to the 

Income-tax Authority for recovery of penalty.  

f.  Regulation 14 – Refund of excess penalty: In case the Competition 

Appellate Tribunal or the High Court or the Supreme Court of India 

holds that the enterprise is not liable to pay any penalty or liable to 

pay penalty less than the amount mentioned in any order or notice, 

 
Page | 84  

 
 

 

 

the demand notice or the recovery certificate shall be withdrawn or 

modified and the amount of penalty, if paid, shall be refunded.  

g.  Regulation  15:  The  Commission  is  empowered  to  determine  the 

procedure in case a situation is not provided for in the regulations.  

From the referred provisions of different enactments, it can be seen that under certain 

laws, the arrears or dues are recovered as if such arrears were arrears of land revenue. In 

some areas like in the securities markets and the employees’ provident fund, the arrears 

or dues are recovered by resorting to the procedure under the Income-tax laws. However, 

under  the laws administered by the Competition Commission, the  said  Commission  is 

empowered to frame regulations for the purposes of recovering unpaid penalties imposed 

under the Competition Act, 2002. Thus, there is a diversity in the manner in which dues 

are recovered under different laws. 

 

 

 

 

 
Page | 85  

 
 

INTERNATIONAL SCENARIO: 

In certain advanced jurisdictions, the arrears due to the securities markets regulator of 

that jurisdiction is recovered as if such dues were a ‘civil debt’, as can be seen from the 

following examples:  

 

A.  United States of America 

The US SEC18, being a federal agency, is empowered to collect a claim from a defaulter in 

terms  of  the  Debt  Collection  Act  (codified  at  31  U.S.C.3716).  The  said  Act  requires 

notice  procedures  TO  be  observed  by  the  agency.  The  claim  is  recovered  against 

“administrative offset”, “salary offset”, tax refund offset” and “wage garnishment order”.  

  

The  Commission  may  report  delinquent  debts  to  consumer  reporting  agencies  (See 31 

U.S.C. 3701(a)(3), 3711). Section 13 of the Debt Collection Act (31 U.S.C. 3718) authorizes 

agencies to enter into contracts for collection services to recover debts owed to the United 

States of America.  

 

B. 

Australia 

 

 In Australia, the ASIC may pursue19 actions in the courts to punish a person or entity in 

response to a misconduct. Actions include –  

a.  Criminal penalties (such as imprisonment, fines, community service orders, 

etc.).  

Matters  giving  rise  to  criminal  penalties  are  prosecuted  by  the 

Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions (CDPP), with the exception 

                                                           
18  See  Code of  Federal  Regulations,  Title  17,  Chapter  II, Part  204,  Rules  relating  to  Debt  collection,  available  at 
<https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?node=17:3.0.1.1.5&rgn=div5#se17.3.204_15>; U. S Code, Title 31, Sub-title 
III, Chapter 37, Sub-chapter II, Section 3716, available at <https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/31/3716>; U. S. 
Code,  Title 
at 
<https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/26/6402#g>; Code of Federal Regulations, Title 31, Sub-title B., Chapter 
II, Sub-chapter A., Part 285, Sub-part A., Section 285.2, available at <https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/31/285.2>; 
Code  of  Federal  regulations,  Title  31,  Sub-title  B.,  Chapter  IX,  Part  901,  Section  901.3,  available  at 
<https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/31/901.3>. 
19  See  ASIC  Enforcement  Review:  Position  Paper  7  Strengthening  Penalties  for  Corporate  and  Financial  Sector 
Misconduct, available at <https://static.treasury.gov.au/uploads/sites/1/2017/10/c2017-t232150.pdf>. 

Sub-chapter  A., 

F.,  Chapter 

Section 

6402, 

available 

26, 

Sub-title 

65, 

 

 
Page | 86  

 
 

of a number of minor regulatory offences which are prosecuted by the ASIC; 

and  

b.  Civil monetary penalties.  

 

All  monetary  penalties  in  these  types  of  actions  are  payable  to  the  Commonwealth  of 

Australia. Under section 91 of the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 

2001 (“ASIC Act”), the ASIC has the power to pass an order to recover the investigation 

expenses and costs, if as a result of the investigation, -  

i.  a person is convicted of an offence, or 

ii.  judgment is awarded, or a declaration or other order is made against a person 

in a proceeding in a court. 

 

The AISC may pass an order that the person pay or reimburse ASIC, -  

for the whole or a specified part, of the expenses of the investigation; 

for  the  whole  or  a  specified  part,  of  the  costs  to  ASIC  of  making  the 

investigation,  including  the  remuneration  of  ASIC  staff  concerned  in  the 

investigation. 

i. 

ii. 

 

ASIC has similar powers under section 319 of the National Consumer Credit Protection 

Act 2009 which allows ASIC to pass an order to recover investigation expenses and costs, 

including, - 

a. 

b. 

c. 

d. 

 

salary costs for ASIC staff who have worked on the investigation 

travel expenses when required to interview witnesses 

costs of external legal counsel, and 

costs of employing an expert to perform an analysis. 

In terms of sub-section (4) of section 91 of the AISC Act, if the amount payable under an 

Order made under the said section is not paid, ASIC may then recover the same through 

a court of competent jurisdiction as a debt due to ASIC.  

 

 

 

 
Page | 87  

 
 

C. 

Singapore 

In  Singapore,  under  sections  27C20,  148(10)21  and  17722  of  the  Monetary  Authority  of 

Singapore  Act  (“MAS  Act”),  the  Monetary  Authority  of  Singapore  (“MAS”)  recovers 

remuneration, expenses, financial penalty and fees as a civil debt. ‘Debt’ due to MAS is 

recoverable in terms of the Civil Law Act.  

The  Committee  notes  that  recovery  of  penalty  or  fees  in  the  aforesaid  jurisdictions  is 

effected as recovery of a ‘civil debt’ and the general law is invoked to recover the same 

through a civil court. 

                                                           
20 Inspection of financial institutions for compliance with directions and regulations under sections 27A and 
27B. 27C.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time, inspect under conditions of secrecy the books of — 

(a)  a financial institution; or 
(b)  any  subsidiary,  branch,  agency  or  office  outside  Singapore  of  a  financial  institution  incorporated  or 
established in Singapore, 

for the purpose of determining the extent of compliance by the financial institution with the directions issued and the 
regulations made under sections 27A and 27B. 
(2) The Authority may appoint any person, including an auditor (not being an auditor of the financial institution), to 
carry out an inspection under this section. 
(3) If the inspection is carried out on the ground that the Authority has reason to believe that the financial institution 
has contravened or is contravening  any  direction issued or regulation  made  under section 27A or 27B, and if  the 
Authority so directs, then the financial institution is liable to pay for the remuneration and expenses of any person 
appointed under subsection (2) for the inspection. 
(4) The Authority may recover from the financial institution the remuneration and expenses referred to in subsection 
(3) as a civil debt due to the Authority. 
………… 
21 Cancellation, etc., of appointment as primary dealer 
148. …………. 
(3) In the case of a failure by a primary dealer to comply with any direction issued by the Authority under section 147, 
the Authority may, in addition to any order that may be made under subsection (2), order the primary dealer to pay to 
the Authority, for every day or part thereof of such failure, a financial penalty in accordance with such formula as the 
Minister may, by notification published in the Gazette, prescribe. 
(4) A financial penalty collected by the Authority under subsection (3) shall be paid into the Consolidated Fund. 
.... 
(10) The Authority may recover on behalf of the Government any financial penalty ordered under subsection (3) as 
though the financial penalty were a civil debt due to the Authority. 
22 Recovery of fees, expenses, etc. 
177. There shall be recoverable as a civil debt due to the Authority from the financial institution concerned — 
(a) 
29A; and 
(b) 

the amount of any fees payable to the Authority under section 29 or under any rules issued under section 

any remuneration and expenses payable by the financial institution to — 

(i)  a statutory adviser appointed under section 33(2); 
(ii)  a statutory manager appointed under section 33(2); 
(iii) the  Authority  or  any  person  appointed  by  the  Authority  under  section  13B  in  relation  to  the  Authority’s 

assumption of control of any business of the financial institution under section 33; and 
(iv) any person appointed to perform any independent assessment under Part IVA or IVB. 

 
Page | 88  

 

 

 
 

RECOVERY UNDER THE INDIAN SECURITIES LAWS 

 

GENESIS OF SECTION 28A OF SEBI ACT, 1992: 

 

Prior to July 2013, SEBI did not have the power to recover amounts due. The absence of 

recovery  power  severely  jeopardized  its  ability  to  recover  unpaid  penalties.  The 

Committee is given to understand that many orders directing disgorgement in the IPO 

scam unearthed in 2005 and 2006 were not complied with. The options available to the 

regulator was to impose debarment for a longer period or file for prosecution in a criminal 

court. Such provisions though meant to act as a deterrent, did not enable SEBI to recover 

the unpaid amounts from the violators. Instead, huge costs were incurred by the regulator 

in such proceedings including manpower to oversee such action.  

  

Realizing the lacunae in its enforcement tools, SEBI deliberated the issue with the Central 

Government and sought an amendment to the SEBI Act to empower it to recover unpaid 

monies due in line with the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961.  

 

Finally, through an Ordinance in 2013 i.e., the Securities Laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 

2013, with effect from July 18, 2013, an important amendment was brought about by the 

insertion of a new section 28A in the SEBI Act and in the analogous provisions in the 

SCRA and the Depositories Act to provide SEBI with the power to recover the amounts 

due.  

 

An Ordinance route was necessitated since the Parliament was not in session. When the 

Amendment  Ordinance,  2013  lapsed,  a  Second  Ordinance  was  promulgated  on 

September 16, 2013 and upon the lapse of this Second Ordinance, a third Ordinance was 

promulgated on March 28, 2014. Subsequently, the Securities Laws (Amendment) Act, 

201423 was notified on August 25, 2014.  

 

                                                           
23 This included reference to section 220 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 which otherwise was not present in the previous 
three amendment Ordinances.  

 

 
Page | 89  

 
 

The avowed ‘Statement of Objects and Reasons’ in respect of the power to recover monies 

due in the Securities Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2014 is as follows, - 

“….to insert a new section 28A so as to empower the Recovery Officer to recover 

the  amount,  against  the  persons  who  fail  to  comply  with  any  direction  of  the 

Board for refund of monies or fail to comply with a direction of disgorgement 

issued under section 11B or fail to pay any fees due to the Board.” 

 

Further, the Notes on Clauses provided as under, –  

“Clause 21.—This clause seeks to insert a new section 28A in the SEBI Act, 1992 

relating to recovery of amounts. This clause empowers the Board, inter alia, to 

attach  and  sell  movable  and  immovable  property  of  the  defaulters  without 

recourse to any court of law and attach bank accounts of defaulters, in case a 

person  fails  to  pay  the  penalty  imposed  by  the  adjudicating  officer  or  fails  to 

comply with any direction of the Board for refund of monies or fails to comply 

with a direction of disgorgement order issued under section 11B or fails to pay 

any fees due to the Board.” 

 

POWER TO RECOVER: 

 

Section 28A of the SEBI Act empowers a Recovery Officer appointed by SEBI to recover 

unpaid  monetary  penalties,  unpaid  monies  directed  to  be  refunded  to  investors, 

disgorgement  amounts  and  unpaid  fees  due  to  SEBI.  The  provisions  of  section  28A  is 

reproduced below:  

“Recovery of amounts. 

28A. (1) If a person fails to pay the penalty imposed [under the Act]24 or fails to 

comply with any direction of the Board for refund of monies or fails to comply with 

a direction of disgorgement order issued under section 11B or fails to pay any fees 

due  to  the  Board,  the  Recovery  Officer  may  draw  up  under  his  signature  a 

statement in the specified form specifying the amount due from the person (such 

                                                           
24 Substituted for the words “by the adjudicating officer” by the Finance Act, 2018. This amendment is not yet brought 
into force.  

 

 
Page | 90  

 
 

 

statement  being  hereafter  in  this  Chapter  referred  to  as  certificate)  and  shall 

proceed to recover from such person the amount specified in the certificate by one 

or more of the following modes, namely:— 

(a)   attachment and sale of the person's movable property; 

(b)   attachment of the person's bank accounts; 

(c)   attachment and sale of the person's immovable property; 

(d)   arrest of the person and his detention in prison; 

(e)   appointing a receiver for the management of the person's movable and 

immovable properties, 

and for this purpose, the provisions of sections 220 to 227, 228A, 229, 232, the 

Second  and  Third  Schedules  to  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961  (43  of  1961)  and  the 

Income-tax (Certificate Proceedings) Rules, 1962, as in force from time to time, 

insofar as may be, apply with necessary modifications as if the said provisions and 

the  rules  made  thereunder  were  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  referred  to  the 

amount  due  under  this  Act  instead  of  to  income-tax  under  the  Income-tax  Act, 

1961. 

 

Explanation  1.—For  the  purposes  of  this  sub-section,  the  person's  movable  or 

immovable property or monies held in bank accounts shall include any property or 

monies held in bank accounts which has been transferred directly or indirectly on 

or after the date when the amount specified in certificate had become due, by the 

person to his spouse or minor child or son's wife or son's minor child, otherwise 

than for adequate consideration, and which is held by, or stands in the name of, 

any of the persons aforesaid; and so far as the movable or immovable property or 

monies held in bank accounts so transferred to his minor child or his son's minor 

child is concerned, it shall, even after the date of attainment of majority by such 

minor child or son's minor child, as the case may be, continue to be included in the 

person's  movable  or  immovable  property  or  monies  held  in  bank  accounts  for 

recovering any amount due from the person under this Act. 

 

 
Page | 91  

 
 

Explanation  2.—Any  reference  under  the  provisions  of  the  Second  and  Third 

Schedules to the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and the Income-tax (Certificate 

Proceedings) Rules, 1962 to the assessee shall be construed as a reference to the 

person specified in the certificate. 

 

Explanation  3.—  Any  reference  to  appeal  in  Chapter  XVIID  and  the  Second 

Schedule to the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), shall be construed as a reference 

to appeal before the Securities Appellate Tribunal under section 15T of this Act. 

Explanation 4.— The interest referred to in section 220of the Income-tax Act, 1961 

shall commence from the date the amount became payable by the person. 

 

(2) The Recovery Officer shall  be empowered  to seek the assistance of the local 

district administration while exercising the powers under sub-section (1). 

(3)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  any  other  law  for  the  time  being  in 

force,  the  recovery  of  amounts  by  a  Recovery  Officer  under  sub-section  (1), 

pursuant to non-compliance with any direction issued by the Board under section 

11B, shall have precedence over any other claim against such person. 

 

(4)  For  the  purposes  of  sub-sections  (1),  (2)  and  (3),  the  expression  "Recovery 

Officer"  means  any  officer  of  the  Board  who  may  be  authorised,  by  general  or 

special order in writing, to exercise the powers of a Recovery Officer.” 

[Emphasis supplied] 

 

Analogous25 provisions are also seen in the SCRA and the Depositories Act.  

 

On a clear reading of section 28A(1)26, the following is noted,-  

 

a.  Action  for  “recovery”  under  section  28A  gets  triggered  when  there  is  a 

failure to -  

                                                           
25 23JB of the SCRA and section 19-IB of the Depositories Act.  
26 Read with analogous provisions i.e. 23JB of the SCRA and section 19-IB of the Depositories Act. 

 

 
Page | 92  

i.  pay a penalty imposed under the Act;  

ii.  comply with a direction of the Board for refund of monies;  

iii.  comply with a direction of disgorgement; or 

iv.  pay fees due to the Board.  

 

b.  In  case  of  defaults  mentioned  above,  the  Recovery  Officer27  draws  up  a 

certificate28  specifying  the  amount  due  from  the  person  (called  the 

“defaulter”) and proceeds to recover the amount specified in his certificate 

by one or more of the following modes -  

i.  attachment and sale of the defaulter’s movable property;  

ii.  attachment of the defaulter’s bank accounts;  

iii.  attachment and sale of the defaulter’s immovable property;  

iv.  arrest of the defaulter and his detention in prison;  

v.  appointing a receiver for the management of the defaulter’s movable 

and immovable properties.  

  

c.  For the aforesaid purpose, the provisions of sections 220 to 227, 228A, 229, 

231, 232, the Second and Third Schedules to the Income-tax Act, 1961 and 

the Income-tax (Certificate Proceedings) Rules, 1962, as in force from time 

to  time,  shall  be  applied  with  necessary  modifications  as  if  the  said 

provisions and the rules thereunder were the provisions of the Act.  

  

d.  In terms of sub-section (3) thereof, the recovery of amounts by a Recovery 

Officer pursuant to non-compliance with any direction issued by the Board 

under section 11B shall have precedence over any other claim against such 

person.  

 
 

  

 

 

                                                           
27 Any officer of the Board who is authorized to exercise the powers of a Recovery Officer. 
28 Statement in a specified form under the signature of the Recovery Officer. 

 

 
Page | 93  

 
 

Procedure for effecting recovery. 

 

Sub-section (1) of section 28A provides that for the purpose of recovering amounts under 

the said section, the provisions of the Income-tax Act and the Rules framed thereunder, 

as  mentioned  in  sub-section  (1)  of  section  28A,  shall  be  applied  with  necessary 

modifications.  

  

Accordingly, SEBI has been following the provisions of –  

 

a.  section  220  (when  tax  is  payable  and  when  an  assessee  is  deemed  in 

default); 

b.  section 221 (penalty payable when tax is in default); 

c.  section 222 (certificate to Tax Recovery Officer); 

d.  section 223 (Tax Recovery Officer by whom recovery is to be effected); 

e.  section  224  (validity  of  certificate  and  cancellation  or  amendment 

thereof); 

f.  section  225  (stay  of  proceedings  in  pursuance  of  certificate  and 

amendment or cancellation thereof); 

g.  section 226 (other modes of recovery); 

h.  section 227 (Recovery through State Government); 

i.  section  228A  (Recovery  of  tax  in  pursuance  of  agreements  with  foreign 

countries); 

j.  section 229 (recovery of penalties, fine, interest and other sums); 

k.  section 231 (period for commencing recovery proceedings); 

l.  section 232 (recovery by suit or under other law not affected);  

m. the Second  Schedule  (Procedure  for  recovery  of  Tax  –  sections  222  and 

276); 

n.  the  Third  Schedule  (Procedure  for  distraint  by  Assessing  Officer  or  Tax 

Recovery Officer); 

of the Income-tax Act, 1961; and  

 

 
Page | 94  

 
 

o.  the Income-tax (Certificate Proceedings) Rules, 196229, as in force,  

with necessary modifications, while initiating recovery proceedings under section 28A of 

the Act.  

 

LEGISLATIVE CHANGES: 

 

The Finance Act, 2018 inserted a new section (section 28B30) in the SEBI Act (similar to 

the provisions for Legal Representatives found in the Income Tax Act, 1961) to enable the 

Board  to  continue  with  the  recovery  proceedings  against  a  legal  representative  in  the 

event the person (i.e. defaulter) dies.  

 

Section 28B reads as follows,-  

“Continuance of proceedings. 

28B. (1) Where a person dies, his legal representative shall be liable to pay any 

sum which the deceased would have been liable to pay, if he had not died, in the 

like manner and to the same extent as the deceased:  

Provided  that,  in  case  of  any  penalty  payable  under  this  Act,  a  legal 

representative shall be liable only in case the penalty has been imposed before the 

death of the deceased person.  

 

(2) For the purposes of sub-section (1),—  

(a)  any  proceeding  for  disgorgement,  refund  or  an  action  for  recovery 

before the Recovery Officer under this Act, except a proceeding for levy of 

penalty, initiated against the deceased before his death, shall be deemed to 

have been initiated against the legal representative, and may be continued 

against the legal representative from the stage at which it stood on the date 

of the death of the deceased and all the provisions of this Act shall apply 

accordingly; 

                                                           
29 In exercise of powers under section 295(1) of the Income-tax Act, 1961 and rules 91 and 92 of the Second Schedule 
to the Income-tax Act, 1961 
30 Also see Part-D of this Report for discussion on this provision.  

 

 
Page | 95  

 
 

 

(b)  any  proceeding  for  disgorgement,  refund  or  an  action  for  recovery 

before the Recovery Officer under this Act, except a proceeding for levy of 

penalty,  which  could have  been  initiated  against  the  deceased  if  he  had 

survived,  may  be  initiated  against  the  legal  representative  and  all  the 

provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly.  

(3) Every legal representative shall be personally liable for any sum payable by 

him  in  his  capacity  as  legal  representative  if,  while  his  liability  for  such  sum 

remains undischarged, he creates a charge on or disposes of or parts with any 

assets of the estate of the deceased, which are in, or may come into, his possession, 

but such liability shall be limited to the value of the asset so charged, disposed of 

or parted with. 

 

(4) The liability of a legal representative under this section shall be limited to the 

extent to which the estate of the deceased is capable of meeting the liability.  

Explanation.  —For  the  purposes  of  this  section  “legal  representative”  means  a 

person who in law represents the estate of a deceased person, and includes any 

person who intermeddles with the estate of the deceased and where a party sues 

or is sued in a representative character, the person on whom the estate devolves 

on the death of the party so suing or sued.” 

 

Analogous provisions are made in the SCRA (new section 23JC) and the Depositories Act 

(new section 19-IC). 

 

 By virtue of the insertion of such legislation, the legal representative is now liable to pay 

the penalty, had the person (original defaulter) not deceased, to the extent of the estate of 

the deceased that is capable of meeting the liability.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page | 96  

 
 

 

 

 

III. 

CONCERNS IN THE PRESENT LAW  

The Committee examined the existing laws, including the provisions relating to recovery 

of Income Tax as applicable to the Indian securities markets and notes that adoption of 

the  mechanism  designed  for  recovery  of  income  tax  for  recovery  of  dues  under  the 

securities laws has brought to the surface certain difficulties.  

  

 

A.  CHALLENGES IN THE EXISTING LAW FOR RECOVERY OF SIPHONED OFF MONIES 

 

 

One of the commonly practiced securities laws violations involves monies raised through 

public  issue  of  securities  being  siphoned  off  by  the  issuer/promoters  to  various  sister 

concerns and individuals. Difficulties arise when the aspects of siphoning of the amounts 

comes to the notice of SEBI after the passing of the final order but during the pendency 

of the recovery proceedings.  

 

The Income Tax Act, 1961 has provisions relating to the clubbing of income. Adopting the 

provisions of recovery under that law to securities markets has led to a unique limitation 

in the context of SEBI. Explanation-I to Section 28A of the SEBI Act allows the Recovery 

Officer to deal with transfers made to certain dependent relatives i.e. spouse, son’s wife, 

minor child and son’s minor wife- i.e. persons with whom clubbing of income is allowed 

under the Income-tax Act. This provision, however, does not extend to corporate entities, 

other individuals and sons or grandsons who have already attained the age of majority 

who  may  have  benefitted  from  the  default.  Thus,  if  one  promoter  entity  transfers  the 

assets  to  another  promoter  entity  to  avoid  recovery  (and  such  entity  is  not  one  of  the 

enumerated individuals), it becomes difficult for the Recovery Officer to deal with such 

transfers.  

 

 

 
Page | 97  

 
 

In matters which have invited judicial attention such as those of Arrow Global, Sahara 

group, etc., the Courts/Tribunal have specifically permitted the sale of assets belonging 

to third parties inter alia to whom monies had been allegedly siphoned off. However, it is 

doubtful if in the absence of directions from the Court or Tribunal , the Recovery Officer 

of SEBI could sell off the assets of third parties and draw up a certificate of sale in respect 

of assets for recovery of the siphoned off monies. 

 

In contrast, the Committee notes that in the USA, SEC inter alia does disgorgement of 

unlawful gains against “relief defendants”- i.e. any persons to whom unlawful proceeds 

were transferred and who have no legitimate claim to the funds or other assets. Relief 

defendants  are  so-named  because  their  presence  in  the  suit  is  necessary  in  order  to 

provide  full  relief.  E.g.  in  SEC  v  George  and  Ors,31  the  court  inter  alia  explained  the 

concept and liability of relief defendants as follows -  

“57. A relief defendant (sometimes referred to as a nominal defendant) may 

"be joined to aid the recovery of relief" and "has no ownership interest in the 

property which is the subject of litigation." (emphasis supplied) SEC v. Cherif, 

933 F.2d 403, 414 (7th Cir.1991); see also SEC v. Cavanagh, 155 F.3d 129, 136 

(2d  Cir.1998).  "Federal  courts  may  order  equitable  relief  against  [such]  a 

person who is not accused of wrongdoing in a securities enforcement action 

where that person: (1) has received ill-gotten funds; and (2) does not have a 

legitimate  claim  to  those  funds."  Cavanagh,  155  F.3d  at  136;  see  also 

Commodity Futures Trading Comm'n v. Kimberlynn Creek Ranch, Inc., 276 

F.3d 187, 192 (4th Cir.2002); SEC v. Colello, 139 F.3d 674, 677 (9th Cir.1998). 

 

58. Each of the relief defendants in this instance received ill-gotten funds and 

had  no  legitimate  claim  to  those  funds.  (emphasis  supplied)  The  pricey 

diamond ring and the $32,000 that Dziorney received from Thorn came from 

funds  Thorn  received  from  investors.  Because  Thorn  obtained  the  money 

through fraud, then gave it to Dziorney as a gift, she has no legitimate claim 

                                                           
31 426 F.3d 786, available at https://openjurist.org/426/f3d/786/securities-and-exchange-commission-v-george-e-d-r-
e. 

 

 
Page | 98  

 
 

to  the  funds.  To  hold  otherwise  "would  allow  almost  any  defendant  to 

circumvent  the  SEC's  power  to  recapture  fraud  proceeds  by  the  simple 

procedure of giving [the proceeds] to friends and relatives, without even their 

knowledge." (emphasis supplied) Cavanagh, 155 F.3d at 137. 

 

59.  Jackson,  Harris  and  George  also  received  ill-gotten  funds  from  the 

defendants.  While  each  of  the  three  invested  his  own  money  in  Thorn's 

investment scheme, the SEC showed that the money they received from the 

scheme came not from profits on their investments but from the investments 

of others. (emphasis supplied) Each of these relief defendants fails to rebut 

this  evidence.  Before  the  district  court,  Jackson  came  "forward  with  no 

evidence to refute the  SEC's evidence  that the amount  Jackson received  as 

purported profits came from other investors." D. Ct. Op. at 39-40. Jackson 

now  claims  in  his  briefs  that  the  money  he  received  back  was  "clearly 

traceable to him," Jackson Br. at 13, but he fails to identify anything in the 

record that supports this assertion. Matters are worse for Harris: Not only 

does he fail to present any evidence rebutting the SEC's proof of tracing, but 

he  also  has  "concede[d]  that  he does  not  know  the  source  of  the  funds"  he 

received from Thorn. D. Ct. Op. at 38. And George, who received back more 

money  than  he  contributed  to  the  investment  pool  and  so  cannot  claim  he 

received only his own funds back, has also failed to come forward with any 

evidence  rebutting  the  SEC's  tracing  evidence.  To  survive  summary 

judgment in the face of the SEC's evidence, the relief defendants needed  to 

present affirmative evidence, not just affirmative assertions, demonstrating 

a disputed issue of material fact. Betkerur v. Aultman Hosp. Ass'n, 78 F.3d 

1079, 1087 (6th Cir.1996). They did not do so.” 

 

Recommendation:  In  view  of  the  above,  the  following  suggestions  are  made  for 

amendments to securities laws -  

 

 

 
Page | 99  

 
 

 

 

 

a. 

after the existing Explanation I to Section 11B of the SEBI Act and 

related provisions in Depositories Act and SCRA, the following may 

be inserted,- 

“Explanation  II.  -  For  the  removal  of  doubts,  it  is  hereby 

declared that the power to issue directions  under this  section 

shall include and always be deemed to have been included, the 

power  to  direct  any  person  to  whom  proceeds  involved  in 

violation, of any of the provisions of this Act, or the rules or the 

regulations, have been transferred to and who has no legitimate 

claim to such proceeds.”  

  

b. 

the  existing  Explanation  I  to  Section  28A  of  the  SEBI  Act  and 

analogous  provisions  in  the  Depositories  Act  and  SCRA  may  be 

substituted with the following, namely, -  

“Explanation 1. — For the purposes of this section, the person's 

movable  or  immovable  property  or  monies  held  in  bank 

accounts  shall  include  any  property  or  monies  held  in  bank 

accounts  which  has  been  transferred  without  adequate 

consideration, directly or indirectly, on or after the date when 

the  amount  specified  in  certificate  had  become  due,  by  such 

person to any other person.”  

 

B. INTERIM ATTACHMENT THROUGH THE JUDICIAL BRANCH 

The SEBI Act, 1992 has an interesting, extremely potent but seldom used power. It is the 

power  of  attachment  through  the  judicial  branch  to  attach  any  bank  account  or  other 

property found in Section 11(4) (e). The recent Banning of Unregulated Deposit Schemes 

Act,  2019  has  linked  the  assets  attached  under  this  provision  with  the  mechanism  to 

 

 
Page | 100  

 
 

recover  monies  due  under  section  28A  of  the  SEBI  Act,  1992.  The  provision  reads  as 

follows,- 

“(4)  Without  prejudice to the  provisions contained in sub-sections  (1), (2), 

(2A) and (3) and section 11B, the Board may, by an order, for reasons to be 

recorded in writing, in the interests of investors or securities market, take any 

of  the  following  measures,  either  pending  investigation  or  inquiry  or  on 

completion of such investigation or inquiry, namely:— 

 

 

 

 

(d)  impound  and  retain  the  proceeds  or  securities  in  respect  of  any 

transaction which is under investigation; 

(e) 

32[attach,  for  a  period  not  exceeding  ninety  days,  bank 

accounts  or  other  property  of  any  intermediary  or  any  person 

associated  with  the  securities  market  in  any  manner  involved  in 

violation  of  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  or  the  rules  or  the 

regulations made thereunder: 

 

 

Provided that the Board shall, within ninety days of the said 

attachment,  obtain  confirmation  of  the  said  attachment  from  the 

Special Court, established under section 26A, having jurisdiction and 

on  such  confirmation,  such  attachment  shall  continue  during  the 

pendency of the aforesaid proceedings and on conclusion of the said 

proceedings, the provisions of section 28A shall apply: 

 

Provided further that only property, bank account or accounts or any 

transaction entered therein, so far as it relates to the proceeds actually 

involved in violation of any of the provisions of this Act, or the rules or 

the regulations made thereunder shall be allowed to be attached];” 

                                                           
32 Substituted by the Banning of Unregulated Deposit Schemes Act, 2019 [No. 21 of 2019] w.e.f 21-2-2019. Prior to 
its substitution, clause (e) read as follows,- 

"(e) attach, after passing of an order on an application made for approval by the Judicial Magistrate of the first 
class having jurisdiction, for a period not exceeding one month, one or more bank account or accounts of any 
intermediary or any person associated with the securities market in any manner involved in violation of any 
of the provisions of this Act, or the rules or the regulations made thereunder: 
Provided that only the bank account or accounts or any transaction entered therein, so far as it relates to the 
proceeds actually involved in violation of any of the provisions of this Act, or the rules or the regulations made 
thereunder shall be allowed to be attached;” 

 

 
Page | 101  

 
 

 

The difficulty in utilizing this power lies in the pre-condition that only ‘proceeds in respect 

of a transaction under investigation’ or ‘only property, bank account or accounts or any 

transaction  entered  therein,  so  far  as  it  relates  to  the  proceeds  actually  involved  in 

violation  of  any  of  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  or  the  rules  or  the  regulations  made 

thereunder shall be allowed to be attached.’  

 

This  pre-condition  of  proving  at  the  interim  stage  itself  that  the  monies  and  assets 

involved in the violation be traced and identified makes the use of interim attachment 

quite  limited  and  self-defeating.  Comparatively  the  Recovery  Officer  has  no  such 

limitation and can order the attachment and sale of all or any property for the purpose of 

recovering  the  monies  due,  whether  or  not  such  property  relates  to  the  violation  of 

securities  laws.  However,  this  is  too  little  too  late.  By  the  time  recovery  begins,  the 

defaulting entity would have by then ensured that his assets are beyond the reach of the 

enforcement agencies. This prejudicially affects the actual amount of money that can be 

recovered. 

 

In  comparison,  the  US  SEC  has  no  such  limitation  on  its  powers.  In  Federal  Trade 

Commission v. Bronson Partners, LLC33, the court inter alia held that: 

“But when a public entity seeks disgorgement it does not claim any entitlement 
to particular property; it seeks only to "deter violations of the laws by depriving 
violators of their ill-gotten gains." Fischbach, 133 F.3d at 175….In light of this 
distinction,  it  is  unsurprising  that  Bronson  can  point  to  no  case  in  which  a 
public agency seeking to obtain equitable monetary relief has been required to 
satisfy the tracing rules. To the contrary, the Federal Reporter is replete with 
instances in which judges of this Court deeply familiar with equity practice have 
permitted the SEC to obtain disgorgement without any mention of tracing.” 

 

Though  initially  US  Federal  Courts  had  placed  such  a  limitation  on  the  US  SEC; 

subsequently they realised the inequitable result that such a limitation would place on the 

SEC and the requirement that funds should be traceable to the violation for granting a 

                                                           
33 654 F.3d 359 (2d Cir. 2011), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/223605/ftc-v-bronson-partners-
llc/>. 

 

 
Page | 102  

 
 

temporary  asset  freeze  was  removed.  The  Court  in  SEC  v  Lauer  &  Ors.34,  inter  alia 

explained the development of law in this respect as follows,- 

“Lauer cites, among other cases, S.E.C. v. First City Financial Corp., Ltd., 890 
F.2d  1215,  1230  (D.C.Cir.1989)  ("First  City")  which  states  that  because 
"disgorgement primarily serves to prevent unjust enrichment, the court may 
exercise  its  equitable  power  only  over  property  causally  related  to  the 
wrongdoing."  Several  cases  have  cited  First  City  for  this  proposition,  most 
notably for our purposes, CFTC v. Sidoti, 178 F.3d 1132, 1138 (11th Cir.1999), 
and  SEC  v.  Gane,  2005  WL  90154,  *19  (S.D.Fla.  2005)  (Gonzales,  J.).  The 
Eleventh Circuit, relying upon First City, held that "the district court may not 
disgorge profits obtained without the aid of any wrongdoing." Sidoti, 178 F.3d 
at 1138. The Sidoti Court went on to find that the district court had abused its 
discretion for ordering disgorgement of profits for a period during which there 
was no record evidence of fraud.  
Subsequent  to  First  City,  the  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  District  of  Columbia 
reviewed the narrow interpretation Lauer proposes for the holding in First City 
and held to do so conflicts with longstanding precedent and would lead to a 
monstrous doctrine that would perpetuate rather than correct an inequity. In 
SEC v. Banner Fund Int'l, et al., 211 F.3d 602, 617 (D.C.Cir.2000), the Court of 
Appeals explained: (emphasis supplied) 

“Because disgorgement is an equitable obligation to return a sum equal 
to the amount wrongfully obtained, rather than a requirement to replevy 
a  specific  asset,  we  reject  Blackwell's  challenge  and  affirm  the  district 
court. 
.  .  .  As  the  SEC  points  out,  the  requirement  of  a  causal  relationship 
between a wrongful act and the property to be disgorged does not imply 
that a court may order a malefactor to disgorge only the actual property 
obtained  by  means  of  his  wrongful  act.  Rather,  the  causal  connection 
required  is  between  the  amount  by  which  the  defendant  was  unjustly 
enriched  and  the  amount  he  can  be  required  to  disgorge.  To  hold,  as 
Blackwell maintains, that a court may order a defendant to disgorge only 
the actual assets unjustly received would lead to absurd results. Under 
Blackwell's approach, for example, a defendant who was careful to spend 
all  the  proceeds  of  his  fraudulent  scheme,  while  husbanding  his  other 
assets,  would  be  immune  from  an  order  of  disgorgement.  Blackwell's 
would  be  a  monstrous  doctrine  for  it  would  perpetuate  rather  than 
correct an inequity. (emphasis supplied)” 

                                                           
34 445 F. Supp. 2d 1362 (S.D. Fla. 2006), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2499896/sec-v-lauer/>. 
 
Page | 103  

 

 
 

 Many  district  courts  faced  with  this  argument  agree  that  "[t]here  is  no 
requirement  that  frozen  assets  be  traceable  to  the  fraudulent  activity 
underlying  a  lawsuit."  SEC  v.  Dennis  Crowley,  Case  No.  0480354-Civ-
Middlebrooks, Slip. Op. (S.D.Fla.2004) (order by consent by Magistrate Judge 
Johnson) [DE 1368, Ex. I]; see also SEC v. A.B. Financing and Inv., Inc., Case 
No. 02-23487-Civ-Ungaro-Benages, Slip. Op. at 2-3. (S.D.Fla.2003) ("a district 
court may freeze assets not specifically traced to illegal activity" quoting Levi 
Strauss & Co. v. Sunrise Int'l Trading Inc., 51 F.3d 982 (11th Cir.1995)) [DE 
1368, Ex. J]; SEC v. Belmonte, No. 88 6557, 1991 WL 214252 (S.D.Fla.1991) 
(Roettger, J.) (refusing to release funds from sale of home, even though home 
had been acquired prior to alleged fraud, because there had been no showing 
that  ill-gotten  funds  had  not  been  used  to  subsidize  mortgage  payments  or 
improve  home);  SEC  v.  Current  Financial  Svcs.,  62  F.  Supp.  2d  66,  68 
(D.D.Cir.1999) (refusing to release personal  funds not traceable to the fraud 
because defendant's liability exceeded total funds frozen);  SEC v. Grossman, 
887  F.  Supp.  649,  661  (S.D.N.Y.1995)  ("it  is  irrelevant  whether  the  funds 
affected by the Asset Freeze are traceable to the illegal activity") (aff'd, 101 F.3d 
109  (2d  Cir.  1996));  SEC  v.  Roor,  No.  99-3372,  1999  WL  553823  at  *2 
(S.D.N.Y.1999)  (denying  motion  to  release  so-called  "untainted"  funds  from 
mortgage of property that pre-existed alleged fraud); SEC v. Glauberman, No. 
90-5205,  1992  WL  175270  at  *1  (S.D.N.Y.1992)  (rejecting  defendant's 
argument that funds subject to disgorgement must be traced "dollar for dollar" 
to the illegal activity). (emphasis supplied) 
….The  amount  of  assets  to  be  frozen,  prior  to  the  finding  of  liability,  is 
determined not by whether the funds themselves are traceable to the fraudulent 
activity underlying the lawsuit, but by showing a reasonable approximation of 
the  amount,  with  interest,  the  defendant  was  unjustly  enriched.  Id.;  SEC  v. 
Blatt 583 F.2d 1325, 1335 (5th Cir.1978). (emphasis supplied)” 
 

Recommendation:  It  may  be  appropriate  to  seek  amendment  to  the  following 

provisions of the SEBI Act, 1992, - 

 

 

i.  Clause (d) of Section 11(4) may be amended as follows,- 

 

“impound and retain the proceeds or securities or monies not exceeding 

the value of the proceeds, inclusive of suitable interest thereon, in 

respect of any transaction which is under investigation;” 

 
Page | 104  

 
 

 

ii.  The second proviso to clause (e) of Section 11(4) may be amended as follows,- 

 

“Provided  further  that  only  property,  bank  account  or  accounts  or  any 

transaction entered therein, so far as it relates to not exceeding the value 

of the proceeds actually involved in violation of any of the provisions of this 

Act, or the rules or the regulations made thereunder, inclusive of suitable 

interest thereon, shall be allowed to be attached.” 

 

 

C. ‘MODIFICATIONS’ TO THE FRAMEWORK OF RECOVERY UNDER THE INCOME TAX ACT, 

 

1961 

While sub-section (1) of  section 28A of the SEBI Act (and analogous provisions in the 

SCRA and Depositories Act) provides leeway for modification, no guidance is provided as 

to how such “modification” is to be effected. The relevant recovery provisions of the 

Income-tax  Act,  1961  and  the  Income-tax  (Certificate  Proceedings)  Rules,  1962  with 

necessary  modifications  are  considered  to  be  part  of  the  SEBI  Act,  the  SCRA  and 

Depositories Act. i.e. sections 220 to 227, 228A, 229, 232, the Second and Third Schedules 

to the Income-tax Act, 1961 and the Income-tax (Certificate Proceedings) Rules, 1962, as 

in force from time to time, in so far as may be, apply with necessary modifications as if 

the said provisions and the rules made thereunder were the provisions of the SEBI Act.  

 

It is common for enactments to have provisions which expressly provide that delegated 

legislation shall have effect as ‘if enacted in this Act.’ It is also common for the enactments 

to declare how the modifications in such cases are to be made. e.g. Section 35 of the Hampi 

World Heritage Area Management Authority Act, 2002 provides as follows:- 

 

“(1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the State 

Government  may  by order  published  in  the  Official  Gazette,  as  the  occasion 

 

 
Page | 105  

 
 

may  require  do  anything  which  appears  to  it  to  be  necessary  to  remove  the 

difficulty.  

(2) Every order made under sub-section (1) shall as soon as may be after it is 

published, be laid before both Houses of the State Legislature and shall, subject 

to  any  modification  which  the  State  Legislature  may  make,  have  effect  as  if 

enacted in this Act.” 

 

However, Section 28A of the SEBI Act is silent in respect of the various modifications to 

sections 220 to 227, 228A, 229, 232, the Second and Third Schedules to the Income-tax 

Act, 1961 and the Income-tax (Certificate Proceedings) Rules, 1962 when applied in the 

securities  markets  context.  Hence,  the  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  the  delegated 

legislation made in the ordinary way so as to carry out the purposes of the Act is the mode 

through which such modifications may be made.  

 

No  rules  have  been  prescribed  under  the  SEBI  Act  in  relation  to  Section  28A  and  the 

modifications to the provisions of Income-tax Act, 1961 and the Income-tax (Certificate 

Proceedings) Rules, 1962 which are deemed to be part of the SEBI Act.  

 

Considering  that  modifications  are  to  be  done  while  applying  the  provisions  of  the 

Income-tax  Act,  1961  and  the  Certificate  Rules,  it  would  be  appropriate  if  such 

modifications  are  clarified  through  regulations  since  section  30  of  the  SEBI  Act  (and 

analogous  provisions  in  the  SCRA  and  Depositories  Act)  permits  the  Board  to  make 

regulations consistent with the SEBI Act and the rules made thereunder to carry out the 

purposes of the Act.  

 

Hence, the Committee is of the view that since the relevant provisions of the Income-tax 

Act, 1961 and the Income-tax (Certificate Proceedings) Rules, 1962 are deemed to be part 

of  the  statute  itself,  it  is  possible  to  frame  regulations  under  the  SEBI  Act  inter  alia 

clarifying the modifications in such provisions as well as any enhancements in process 

within the basic framework relating to a Recovery officer. 

 

 

 
Page | 106  

 
 

IV. 

SUITABLE APPLICATION BY MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE 

INCOME-TAX ACT, 1961 

 

Section  28A  of  the  SEBI  Act  and  the  analogous  provisions  of  the  SCRA  and  the 

Depositories Act refers to the provisions of sections 220-227, 228A, 229 and 232 of the 

Income-tax  Act,  1961.  These  provisions  are  substantive  in  nature.  Therefore,  the 

Committee is of the view that in the light of the suggestions made to have comprehensive 

regulations  for  the  purposes  of  “recovery”  under  the  securities  laws,  the  aforesaid 

provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961 be suitably modified in the securities laws in the 

context of recovery proceedings intended by the Board.  

 

The Committee suggests the following modifications: -  

 

Sr. 

Provisions of the Income-tax Act, 

Suggested modification for SEBI 

No. 

1961 

I.  When  tax  payable  and  when 

Amounts when payable.  

assessee deemed in default. 

(1) Any penalty or refund of monies or 

220. (1) Any amount, otherwise than by 

disgorgement of amounts or fees due 

way of advance tax, specified as payable 

to  the  Board,  under  the  Act35  or  the 

in  a  notice  of  demand  under section 

Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 

156 shall  be  paid  within  thirty  days  of 

1956  or  the  Depositories  Act,  1996, 

the service of the notice at the place and 

shall  be  paid  within  thirty  days  of 

to the person mentioned in the notice : 

service  of  notice  or  in  terms  of  the 

Provided that,  where  the  Assessing 

regulations issued or an order passed 

Officer has any reason to believe that it 

by the Board: 

will be detrimental to revenue if the full 

Provided  that  where  the  Recovery 

period  of  thirty  days  aforesaid 

is 

Officer  has  reason  to  believe  that  it 

allowed,  he  may,  with  the  previous 

will be detrimental if the full period of 

approval  of  the  Joint  Commissioner, 

thirty days as aforesaid is allowed, he 

                                                           
35 ‘Act’ in these suggested modifications means the SEBI Act, 1992. 

 

 
Page | 107  

 
 

 

direct  that  the  sum  specified  in  the 

may, with the previous approval of the 

notice  of  demand  shall  be  paid  within 

Board, direct that the sum specified in 

such period being a period less than the 

the  notice  of  demand  be  paid  within 

period  of thirty  days aforesaid,  as  may 

such  period  being  a  period  less  than 

be  specified  by  him  in  the  notice  of 

the  period  of  thirty  days,  as  may  be 

demand. 

specified  by  him  in  the  notice  of 

(1A)  Where  any  notice  of  demand  has 

demand.  

been  served  upon  an  assessee  and  any 

Explanation.  –  The  order  imposing 

appeal or other proceeding, as the case 

penalty, directing refund or directing 

may be, is filed or initiated in respect of 

disgorgement shall be deemed to be a 

the amount specified in the said notice 

notice of demand. 

of demand, then, such demand shall be 

(2)  Where  any  notice  of  demand  has 

deemed  to  be  valid  till  the  disposal  of 

been served upon any person and any 

the  appeal  by 

the 

last  appellate 

appeal  or  other  proceeding,  as  the 

authority or disposal of the proceedings, 

case  may  be,  is  filed  or  initiated  in 

as the case may be, and any such notice 

respect of the amount specified in the 

of  demand  shall  have  the  effect  as 

said  notice  of  demand,  either  by  the 

specified  in  section  3  of  the  Taxation 

person  or  the  Board,  then  such  a 

Laws  (Continuation  and  Validation  of 

demand  shall  be  deemed  to  be  valid 

Recovery Proceedings) Act, 1964 (11 of 

till the disposal of the proceedings, as 

1964). 

the case may be, and any such notice 

(2) If the amount specified in any notice 

of  demand  shall  have  the  following 

of demand under section 156 is not paid 

effect:  

within  the  period  limited  under  sub-

(a) where the dues are enhanced in 

section (1), the assessee shall be liable to 

such  appeal  or  proceedings  or 

pay simple  interest  at  one per  cent  for 

interest 

accrues  on 

such 

every  month  or  part  of  a  month 

monies  due  to  the  passage  of 

comprised  in  the  period  commencing 

time; another notice of demand 

from the day immediately following the 

only  in  respect  of  the  amount 

end  of  the  period  mentioned  in  sub-

by  which 

such  dues  are 

 
Page | 108  

 
 

 

section (1) and ending with the day on 

enhanced,  without  the  service 

which the amount is paid : 

of any fresh notice of demand, 

Provided that, where as a result of an 

shall  be  continued  from  the 

order under section 154, or section 155, 

stage 

at 

which 

such 

or section 

or section 

250, 

260, 

or section 

or section 

254, 

262, 

proceedings stood immediately 

prior to such disposal;  

or section  264 or  an  order  of  the 

(b) where the dues are reduced in 

Settlement  Commission  under  sub-

such appeal or proceedings, an 

section (4) of section 245D, the amount 

intimation  of  the  fact  of  such 

on  which  interest  was  payable  under 

reduction shall be issued to the 

this  section  had  been  reduced,  the 

person;  

interest  shall  be  reduced  accordingly 

(c) no  proceedings  in  relation  to 

and the excess interest paid, if any, shall 

such  dues 

(including 

the 

be refunded : 

imposition  of  penalty  or 

Provided  further that  where  as  a 

charging  of  interest)  shall  be 

result  of  an  order  under  sections 

invalid  by  reason  only  that  no 

specified 

in  the 

first  proviso,  the 

fresh  notice  of  demand  was 

amount  on  which  interest  was  payable 

served  upon  the  person  after 

under  this  section  had  been  reduced 

the  disposal  of  such  appeal  or 

and subsequently as a result of an order 

proceeding  or  that  such  dues 

under  said  sections  or section  263,  the 

have been enhanced or reduced 

amount  on  which  interest  was  payable 

in such appeal or proceeding:  

under  this  section  is  increased,  the 

Provided  that  where  any  dues  are 

assessee  shall  be  liable  to  pay  interest 

reduced in such appeal or proceeding 

under  sub-section  (2)  from  the  day 

and  the  person  is  entitled  to  any 

immediately  following  the  end  of  the 

refund  thereof,  such  refund  shall  be 

period  mentioned  in  the  first  notice  of 

made 

in 

accordance  with 

the 

demand,  referred  to  in  sub-section  (1) 

provisions of these regulations.  

and  ending  with  the  day  on  which  the 

(3)  For  the  removal  of  doubts,  it  is 

amount is paid: 

hereby declared that no fresh notice of 

 
Page | 109  

 
 

 

Provided  also that  in  respect  of  any 

demand shall be necessary in any case 

period  commencing  on  or  before  the 

where the amount of dues is not varied 

31st  day  of  March,  1989  and  ending 

as a result of any order passed in any 

after  that  date,  such  interest  shall,  in 

appeal or other proceeding.  

respect  of  so  much  of  such  period  as 

(4) The person who is liable to pay the 

falls after that date, be calculated at the 

dues as specified in sub-regulation (1), 

rate  of  one  and  one-half  per  cent  for 

shall be liable to pay simple interest at 

every month or part of a month. 

the  rate  of  18%  per  annum  on 

(2A) 

Notwithstanding 

anything 

amounts in default from the date such 

contained 

in  sub-section 

(2), 

the 

amounts became due or from the date 

Principal  Chief  Commissioner  or  Chief 

of passing of the original order by the 

Commissioner 

or 

Principal 

Board or the Adjudicating Officer till 

Commissioner  or  Commissioner  may 

the  date  of  actual  payment  or 

reduce or waive the amount of interest 

realization of such dues, whichever is 

paid or payable by an assessee under the 

earlier: 

said sub-section if he is satisfied that— 

Provided  that  where  the  amount  of 

 (i)  payment  of  such  amount  has 

dues has been enhanced or reduced by 

caused  or  would  cause  genuine 

virtue of any order passed in appeal or 

hardship to the assessee; 

proceedings, the interest thereon shall 

 (ii)  default  in  the  payment  of  the 

be reduced accordingly.  

amount  on  which  interest  has 

 (5)  While  drawing  up  any  notice  of 

been paid or was payable under 

demand or a certificate, the Recovery 

the said sub-section was due to 

Officer  shall 

include  therein  the 

circumstances 

beyond 

the 

interest as specified above.  

control of the assessee; and 

(6)  Without  prejudice 

to 

the 

(iii) the assessee has co-operated in 

provisions 

contained 

in 

this 

any 

inquiry  relating  to  the 

regulation, on an application made by 

assessment  or  any  proceeding 

the person before the expiry of the due 

for  the  recovery  of  any amount 

date  under  sub-regulation  (1),  the 

due from him: 

Board  or  the  Recovery  Officer  on 

 
Page | 110  

 
 

 

Provided that  the  order  accepting  or 

approval of the Board, for reasons to 

rejecting the application of the assessee, 

be recorded in writing, may extend the 

either in full or in part, shall be passed 

time for payment or allow payment by 

within a period of twelve months from 

instalments, 

subject 

to 

such 

the  end  of  the  month  in  which  the 

conditions  as  may  be 

imposed 

application is received: 

considering 

the 

facts 

and 

Provided 

further that  no  order 

circumstances of the case: 

rejecting  the  application,  either  in  full 

Provided  that  extension  of  time  or 

or  in  part,  shall  be  passed  unless  the 

payment  by  instalments  shall  not  be 

assessee has been given an opportunity 

granted  beyond  a  period  of  twenty-

of being heard: 

four months from the date of expiry of 

Provided 

also that  where 

any 

the period specified in sub-regulation 

application is pending as on the 1st day 

(1).  

of June, 2016, the order shall be passed 

(7)  Where  the  amount  is  not  paid 

on or before the 31st day of May, 2017. 

within  the  time  specified  in  sub-

(2B) 

Notwithstanding 

anything 

regulation (1) or extended under sub-

contained  in  sub-section  (2),  where 

regulation (6), as the case may be, the 

interest  is  charged  under  sub-section 

person  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in 

(1A) of section 201 on the amount of tax 

default.  

specified in the intimation issued under 

(8) Where payment by instalments is 

sub-section (1) of section 200A for any 

allowed under sub-regulation (6), the 

period,  then,  no 

interest  shall  be 

person  who  commits  a  default  in 

charged  under  sub-section  (2)  on  the 

paying  any  one  of  the  instalments 

same amount for the same period. 

within the time fixed under that sub-

(2C) 

Notwithstanding 

anything 

section,  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in 

contained  in  sub-section  (2),  where 

default as to the whole of the amount 

interest  is  charged  under  sub-section 

then  outstanding,  and  the  other 

(7) of section 206C on the amount of tax 

instalment  or  instalments  shall  be 

specified in the intimation issued under 

deemed to have been due on the same 

sub-section (1) of section 206CB for any 

 
Page | 111  

 
 

 

period,  then,  no 

interest  shall  be 

date  as  the 

instalment  which 

is 

charged  under  sub-section  (2)  on  the 

actually in default. 

same amount for the same period. 

(9)  Where  the  persons  has  preferred 

(3) Without prejudice to the provisions 

an  appeal  before 

the  Securities 

contained  in  sub-section  (2),  on  an 

Appellate  Tribunal,  the  Board  or  the 

application made by the assessee before 

Recovery  Officer  subject  to  such 

the  expiry  of  the  due  date  under  sub-

conditions  as  he  may  think  fit  to 

section  (1),  the  Assessing  Officer  may 

impose  in  the  circumstances  of  the 

extend  the  time  for  payment  or  allow 

case and for reasons to be recorded in 

payment by instalments, subject to such 

writing, treat the person as not being 

conditions as he may think fit to impose 

in  default  in  respect  of  the  amount 

in the circumstances of the case. 

due,  even 

though 

the 

time 

for 

(4) If the amount is not paid within the 

payment has expired, as long as such 

time  limited  under  sub-section  (1)  or 

appeal remains undisposed of. 

extended  under  sub-section  (3),  as  the 

case  may  be,  at  the  place  and  to  the 

person mentioned in the said notice the 

assessee  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in 

default. 

(5)  If,  in  a  case  where  payment  by 

instalments 

is  allowed  under  sub-

section  (3), 

the  assessee  commits 

defaults  in  paying  any  one  of  the 

instalments within the time fixed under 

that  sub-section,  the  assessee  shall  be 

deemed to be in default as to the whole 

of the amount then outstanding, and the 

other instalment or instalments shall be 

deemed to have been  due on the same 

 
Page | 112  

date  as  the 

instalment  actually 

in 

default. 

(6) Where an assessee has presented an 

appeal  under section  246 or section 

246A the  Assessing  Officer  may,  in  his 

discretion 

and 

subject 

to 

such 

conditions as he may think fit to impose 

in  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  treat 

the  assessee  as  not  being  in  default  in 

respect of the amount in dispute in the 

appeal,  even  though  the  time  for 

payment  has  expired,  as  long  as  such 

appeal remains undisposed of. 

(7) Where an assessee has been assessed 

in  respect  of  income  arising  outside 

India  in  a  country  the  laws  of  which 

prohibit  or  restrict  the  remittance  of 

money  to  India,  the  Assessing  Officer 

shall not treat the assessee as in default 

in respect of that part of the tax which is 

due  in  respect  of  that  amount  of  his 

income  which,  by  reason  of  such 

prohibition  or  restriction,  cannot  be 

brought  into  India,  and  shall  continue 

to treat the assessee as not in default in 

respect of such part of the tax until the 

prohibition or restriction is removed. 

Explanation.—For the purposes of this 

section, income shall be deemed to have 

been  brought  into  India  if  it  has  been 

 
 

 

 
Page | 113  

 
 

 

utilised or could have been utilised for 

the  purposes  of  any  expenditure 

actually 

incurred  by 

the  assessee 

outside India or if the income, whether 

capitalised or not, has been brought into 

India in any form. 

II.  Penalty  payable  when 

tax 

in 

Liability for other action.  

default. 

A person in default or deemed to be in 

221. (1) When an assessee is in default 

default in making payment of dues, in 

or is deemed to be in default in making 

addition  to  the  amount  which  is  due 

a payment of tax, he shall, in addition to 

and the amount of interest payable on 

the  amount  of  the  arrears  and  the 

such dues, may be liable for any other 

amount  of  interest  payable under  sub-

action under the Act or the Securities 

section (2) of section 220, be liable, by 

Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  or 

way of penalty, to pay such amount  as 

the Depositories Act, 1996, as the case 

the Assessing Officer may direct, and in 

may be. 

the  case  of  a  continuing  default,  such 

 

further  amount  or  amounts  as  the 

Assessing  Officer  may,  from  time  to 

time, direct, so, however, that the total 

amount of penalty does not exceed the 

amount of tax in arrears : 

Provided that before levying any such 

penalty,  the  assessee  shall  be  given  a 

reasonable opportunity of being heard: 

Provided  further that  where 

the 

assessee proves to the satisfaction of the 

Assessing  Officer  that  the  default  was 

for  good  and  sufficient  reasons,  no 

 
Page | 114  

 
 

 

penalty  shall  be 

levied  under  this 

section. 

Explanation.—For 

the 

removal  of 

doubt,  it  is  hereby  declared  that  an 

assessee  shall  not  cease  to  be  liable  to 

any  penalty  under  this  sub-section 

merely by reason of the fact that before 

the levy of such penalty he has paid the 

tax. 

(2) Where as a result of any final order 

the  amount  of  tax,  with  respect  to  the 

default  in  the  payment  of  which  the 

penalty  was  levied,  has  been  wholly 

reduced,  the  penalty  levied  shall  be 

cancelled  and  the  amount  of  penalty 

paid shall be refunded. 

 

III.  Certificate 

to  Tax  Recovery 

Certificate. 

Officer. 

(1)  When  a  person  is  in  default  or  is 

222. (1) When an assessee is in default 

deemed  to  be  in  default  in  making  a 

or is deemed to be in default in making 

payment of dues, namely, -  

a  payment  of  tax,  the  Tax  Recovery 

(a) a penalty imposed under the 

Officer may draw up under his signature 

Act, the Securities Contracts 

a 

statement 

in 

the 

prescribed 

(Regulations)  Act,  1956  or 

form specifying  the  amount  of  arrears 

the  Depositories  Act,  1996; 

due from the assessee (such statement 

or 

being  hereafter  in  this  Chapter  and  in 

(b) any  amount  payable  on 

the  Second  Schedule  referred  to  as 

failure  of  any  person  to 

"certificate")  and  shall  proceed 

to 

refund 

any  monies 

as 

recover from such assessee the amount 

directed by the Board; or 

 
Page | 115  

 
 

 

specified  in  the  certificate  by  one  or 

(c) any  amount  payable  on 

more of the modes mentioned below, in 

failure  of  any  person  to 

accordance with the rules laid down in 

disgorge monies  as  directed 

the Second Schedule— 

by the Board; or 

 (a)  attachment  and  sale  of  the 

(d) any fees due to the Board,  

assessee's movable property; 

the  Recovery  Officer  shall  draw  up 

 (b)  attachment  and  sale  of  the 

under  his 

signature,  a  written 

assessee's immovable property; 

statement in the form mentioning the 

 (c)  arrest  of  the  assessee  and  his 

amount  due  from  the  person  (such 

detention in prison; 

statement being hereafter referred to 

 (d)  appointing  a  receiver  for  the 

as  "certificate")  and  shall  proceed  to 

management  of  the  assessee's 

recover from such person, the amount 

movable 

and 

immovable 

specified  in  the  certificate  by  one  or 

properties. 

more of the modes specified in these 

Explanation.—For the purposes of this 

regulations  and  in  accordance  with 

sub-section,  the  assessee's  movable  or 

these regulations. 

immovable  property  shall  include  any 

(2)  The  Recovery  Officer  may  take 

property  which  has  been  transferred, 

action  under 

sub-regulation 

(1), 

directly or indirectly on or after the 1st 

notwithstanding that proceedings for 

day of June, 1973, by the assessee to his 

recovery  of  the  arrears  by  any  other 

spouse  or  minor  child  or  son's  wife  or 

mode have been taken.  

son's  minor  child,  otherwise  than  for 

 

adequate  consideration,  and  which  is 

held by, or stands in the name of, any of 

the persons aforesaid; and so far as the 

movable  or  immovable  property  so 

transferred  to  his  minor  child  or  his 

son's minor child is concerned, it shall, 

even  after  the  date  of  attainment  of 

majority  by  such  minor  child  or  son's 

 
Page | 116  

 
 

 

minor  child,  as  the  case  may  be, 

continue to be included in the assessee's 

movable  or  immovable  property  for 

recovering  any  arrears  due  from  the 

assessee in respect of any period prior to 

such date. 

(2) The Tax Recovery Officer may take 

action 

under 

sub-section 

(1), 

notwithstanding  that  proceedings  for 

recovery  of  the  arrears  by  any  other 

mode have been taken. 

IV.  Tax  Recovery  Officer  by  whom 

Recovery  Officer  by  whom 

recovery is to be effected. 

recovery is to be effected. 

223. (1)  The  Tax  Recovery  Officer 

(1) The Recovery Officer competent to 

competent to take action under section 

take action shall be— 

222 shall be— 

 (a)  the  Recovery  Officer  within 

 (a) the Tax Recovery Officer within 

whose 

jurisdiction 

the 

whose  jurisdiction  the  assessee 

defaulter 

carries 

on  his 

carries  on  his  business  or 

business  or  profession  or 

profession  or  within  whose 

within  whose  jurisdiction  the 

jurisdiction  the  principal  place 

principal place of his business 

of  his  business  or  profession  is 

or profession is situate, or 

situate, or 

 (b)  the  Recovery  Officer  within 

 (b) the Tax Recovery Officer within 

whose 

jurisdiction 

the 

whose  jurisdiction  the  assessee 

defaulter 

resides  or 

any 

resides  or  any  movable  or 

movable 

or 

immovable 

immovable  property  of 

the 

property  of  the  person 

is 

assessee is situate, 

situate, 

the  jurisdiction  for  this  purpose  being 

the jurisdiction for this purpose being 

the  jurisdiction  assigned  to  the  Tax 

the 

jurisdiction  assigned 

to 

the 

 
Page | 117  

 
 

 

Recovery  Officer  under  the  orders  or 

Recovery Officers under the orders or 

directions issued by the Board, or by the 

directions issued by the Board.  

Principal  Chief  Commissioner  or  Chief 

(2)  Where  a  person  has  property 

Commissioner 

or 

Principal 

within  the  jurisdiction  of  more  than 

Commissioner or Commissioner who is 

one  Recovery  Officer  and 

authorised in this behalf by the Board in 

Recovery  Officer  by  whom 

the 

the 

pursuance of section 120. 

certificate is drawn up— 

(2)  Where  an  assessee  has  property 

 (a) is not able to recover the entire 

within the jurisdiction of more than one 

amount  by 

sale  of 

the 

Tax  Recovery  Officer  and  the  Tax 

property, 

movable 

Recovery  Officer  by  whom 

the 

immovable, 

within 

or 

his 

certificate is drawn up— 

jurisdiction, or 

 (a) is not able to recover the entire 

 (b) is of the opinion that, for the 

amount by sale of the property, 

purpose  of  expediting  or 

movable  or  immovable,  within 

securing  the  recovery  of  the 

his jurisdiction, or 

whole  or  any  part  of  the 

 (b)  is  of  the  opinion  that,  for  the 

amount under this Chapter, it 

purpose 

of 

expediting 

or 

is necessary so to do, 

securing  the  recovery  of  the 

he may send the certificate or, where 

whole or any part of the amount 

only  a  part  of  the  amount  is  to  be 

under 

this  Chapter, 

it 

is 

recovered,  a  copy  of  the  certificate 

necessary so to do, 

certified in the specified manner and 

he  may  send  the  certificate  or,  where 

specifying the amount to be recovered 

only  a  part  of  the  amount  is  to  be 

to  a  Recovery  Officer  within  whose 

recovered,  a  copy  of  the  certificate 

jurisdiction the person resides or has 

certified in the prescribed manner57 and 

property 

and, 

thereupon, 

that 

specifying  the  amount  to  be  recovered 

Recovery Officer shall also proceed to 

to a Tax Recovery Officer within whose 

recover  the  amount  under  these 

jurisdiction the assessee resides or has 

regulations  as  if  the  certificate  or  a 

property  and,  thereupon,  that  Tax 

 
Page | 118  

 
 

 

Recovery  Officer  shall  also  proceed  to 

copy  thereof  had  been  drawn  up  by 

recover the amount under this Chapter 

him.  

as if the certificate or copy thereof had 

 

been drawn up by him. 

 

V.  Validity 

of 

certificate 

and 

Validity  of 

certificate 

and 

cancellation 

or 

amendment 

cancellation  or 

amendment 

thereof. 

thereof. 

224. It shall not be open to the assessee 

No person shall be allowed to dispute 

to  dispute  the  correctness  of  any 

the  correctness  of  any  certificate 

certificate  drawn  up  by 

the  Tax 

drawn up by the Recovery Officer on 

Recovery  Officer  on  any  ground 

any ground whatsoever, but it shall be 

whatsoever, but it shall be lawful for the 

lawful  for  the  Recovery  Officer  to 

Tax  Recovery  Officer  to  cancel  the 

cancel the certificate if, for any reason, 

certificate if, for any reason, he thinks it 

he  thinks  it  necessary  so  to  do,  or  to 

necessary  so  to  do,  or  to  correct  any 

correct  any  clerical  or  mathematical 

clerical or arithmetical mistake therein. 

error therein. 

 

 

V.  Stay  of  proceedings  in  pursuance 

Stay 

of 

proceedings 

in 

of  certificate  and  amendment  or 

pursuance  of  certificate  and 

cancellation thereof. 

amendment 

or 

cancellation 

225. (1)  It  shall  be  lawful  for  the  Tax 

thereof. 

Recovery  Officer  to  grant  time  for  the 

(1) It shall be lawful for the Recovery 

payment  of  any  tax  and  when  he  does 

Officer to grant time for the payment 

so, he shall stay the proceedings for the 

of any dues and when he does so, he 

recovery of such tax until the expiry of 

shall  stay  the  proceedings  for  the 

the time so granted. 

recovery of such dues until the expiry 

(2)  Where  the  order  giving  rise  to  a 

of the time so granted. 

demand of tax for which a certificate has 

(2)  Where  the  order  giving  rise  to  a 

been drawn up is modified in appeal or 

demand of dues for which a certificate 

 
Page | 119  

 
 

 

other proceeding under this Act, and, as 

has  been  drawn  up  is  modified  in 

a  consequence  thereof,  the  demand  is 

appeal or other proceeding under the 

reduced  but  the  order  is  the  subject-

Act  or 

the  Securities  Contracts 

matter of further proceeding under this 

(Regulation)  Act, 

1956  or 

the 

Act, the Tax Recovery Officer shall stay 

Depositories  Act,  1996,  and,  as  a 

the recovery of such part of the amount 

consequence  thereof,  the  demand  is 

specified in the certificate as pertains to 

reduced  but  the  order  is  the  subject-

the  said  reduction  for  the  period  for 

matter  of  further  proceeding  under 

which  the  appeal  or  other  proceeding 

the  aforesaid  Acts,  the  Recovery 

remains pending. 

Officer shall stay the recovery of such 

(3) Where a certificate has been drawn 

part  of  the  amount  specified  in  the 

up and subsequently the amount of the 

certificate  that  pertains  to  the  said 

outstanding  demand  is  reduced  as  a 

reduction for the period for which the 

result of an appeal or other proceeding 

appeal  or  other  proceeding  remains 

under this Act, the Tax Recovery Officer 

pending. 

shall,  when  the  order  which  was  the 

(3) Where a certificate has been drawn 

subject-matter  of  such  appeal  or  other 

up  and  subsequently  the  amount  of 

proceeding  has  become 

final  and 

the outstanding demand is reduced as 

conclusive,  amend  the  certificate,  or 

a  result  of  an  appeal  or  other 

cancel it, as the case may be. 

proceeding under the Acts mentioned 

 

in  sub-regulation  (2),  the  Recovery 

Officer  shall,  when  the  order  which 

was the subject-matter of such appeal 

or other proceeding has become final 

and conclusive, amend the certificate, 

or cancel it, as the case may be. 

VI.  Other modes of recovery. 

Other modes of recovery. 

226. (1) Where no certificate has  been 

(1) Where a certificate has been drawn 

drawn  up  under section  222, 

the 

up, the Recovery Officer may, without 

Assessing Officer may recover the tax by 

prejudice  to  the  modes  of  recovery 

 
Page | 120  

 
 

 

any one or more of the modes provided 

specified  in  that  section  (s),  recover 

in this section. 

the  dues  by  any  one  or  more  of  the 

(1A) Where a certificate has been drawn 

other  modes  provided 

in 

these 

up under section 222, the Tax Recovery 

regulation. 

Officer  may,  without  prejudice  to  the 

(2)  If  any  person  is  in  receipt  of  any 

modes  of  recovery  specified  in  that 

income  in  the  nature  of  salary,  the 

section,  recover  the  tax  by  any  one  or 

Recovery  Officer  may  require  any 

more  of  the  modes  provided  in  this 

person  paying  the  same  to  deduct 

section. 

from any payment subsequent to the 

(2)  If  any  assessee  is  in  receipt  of  any 

date of such requisition any dues from 

income  chargeable  under  the  head 

such  person,  and  such  person  shall 

"Salaries", the Assessing Officer or Tax 

comply with any such requisition and 

Recovery  Officer  may  require  any 

shall pay the sum so deducted to the 

person paying the same to deduct from 

credit  of  the  Board  or  as  directed  by 

any payment subsequent to the date of 

the Recovery Officer: 

such requisition any arrears of tax due 

Provided that  any  part  of  the  salary 

from  such  assessee,  and  such  person 

exempt from attachment in execution 

shall  comply with any such requisition 

of  a  decree  of  a  civil  court  under 

and shall pay the sum so deducted to the 

section  60  of  the  Code  of  Civil 

credit of the Central Government or as 

Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall be 

the Board directs: 

exempt  from  any  requisition  made 

Provided that  any  part  of  the  salary 

under this sub-regulation.  

exempt from attachment in execution of 

(3)  (i)  The  Recovery  Officer  may,  at 

a decree of a civil court under section 60 

any  time  or  from  time  to  time,  by 

of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 

notice  in  writing  require  any  person 

of  1908),  shall  be  exempt  from  any 

from  whom  money  is  due  or  may 

requisition  made  under 

this  sub-

become  due  to  the  defaulter  or  any 

section. 

person  who 

holds 

or  may 

(3)  (i)  The  Assessing  Officer  or  Tax 

subsequently  hold  money  for  or  on 

Recovery  Officer  may,  at  any  time  or 

account of the defaulter to pay to the 

 
Page | 121  

 
 

 

from time to time, by notice in writing 

Recovery  Officer  either 

forthwith 

require any  person from whom money 

upon  the  money  becoming  due  or 

is  due  or  may  become  due  to  the 

being  held  or  at  or  within  the  time 

assessee  or  any  person  who  holds  or 

specified  in  the  notice  (not  being 

may subsequently hold money for or on 

before  the  money  becomes  due  or  is 

account  of  the  assessee  to  pay  to  the 

held)  so  much  of  the  money  as  is 

Assessing  Officer  or  Tax  Recovery 

sufficient  to  pay  the  amount  due  by 

Officer either forthwith upon the money 

the defaulter in respect of dues or the 

becoming  due  or  being  held  or  at  or 

whole of the money when it is equal to 

within  the  time  specified  in  the  notice 

or less than that amount. 

(not  being  before  the  money  becomes 

Provided  that  wherever  the  defaulter 

due or is held) so much of the money as 

has a right to demand payment of any 

is  sufficient  to  pay  the  amount  due  by 

amount before such amount becomes 

the assessee in respect of arrears or the 

payable under any contract, certificate 

whole of the money when it is equal to 

or instrument, it shall be lawful for the 

or less than that amount. 

Recovery Officer to demand payment 

(ii) A notice under this sub-section may 

of the amount forthwith.  

be  issued  to  any  person  who  holds  or 

(ii) A notice under this sub-regulation 

may  subsequently  hold  any  money  for 

may  be  issued  to  any  person  who 

or  on  account  of  the  assessee  jointly 

holds  or  may  subsequently  hold  any 

with  any  other  person  and  for  the 

money  for  or  on  account  of  the 

purposes of this sub-section, the shares 

defaulter jointly with any other person 

of the joint holders in such account shall 

and  for  the  purposes  of  this  sub-

be  presumed,  until  the  contrary  is 

regulation,  the  shares  of  the  joint 

proved, to be equal. 

holders  in  such  account  shall  be 

(iii)  A  copy  of  the  notice  shall  be 

presumed,  until 

the  contrary 

is 

forwarded  to  the  assessee  at  his  last 

proved, to be equal. 

address known to the Assessing Officer 

(iii)  A  copy  of  the  notice  shall  be 

or Tax Recovery Officer, and in the case 

forwarded  to  the  defaulter  at  his  last 

of a joint account to all the joint holders 

address  known 

to 

the  Recovery 

 
Page | 122  

 
 

 

at  their  last  addresses  known  to  the 

Officer,  and  in  the  case  of  a  joint 

Assessing  Officer  or  Tax  Recovery 

account to all the joint holders at their 

Officer. 

last addresses known to the Recovery 

(iv)  Save as otherwise provided in this 

Officer. 

sub-section,  every  person  to  whom  a 

(iv) Save as otherwise provided in this 

notice  is  issued  under  this  sub-section 

sub-regulation, every person to whom 

shall  be  bound  to  comply  with  such 

a  notice  is  issued  under  this  sub-

notice,  and,  in  particular,  where  any 

regulation  shall  be  bound  to  comply 

such  notice  is  issued  to  a  post  office, 

with such notice, and, where any such 

banking company or an insurer, it shall 

notice  is  issued  to  a  post  office, 

not  be  necessary  for  any  pass  book, 

banking  company  or  an  insurer,  in 

deposit  receipt,  policy  or  any  other 

particular,  it  shall  not  be  necessary 

document  to  be  produced  for  the 

that  the  pass  book,  deposit  receipt, 

purpose  of  any  entry,  endorsement  or 

policy  or  any  other  document  be 

the like  being  made  before  payment  is 

produced for the purpose of any entry, 

made,  notwithstanding 

any 

rule, 

endorsement  or  the  like  being  made 

practice or requirement to the contrary. 

before 

payment 

is 

made, 

(v) Any claim respecting any property in 

notwithstanding any rule, practice or 

relation  to  which  a  notice  under  this 

requirement to the contrary.  

sub-section  has  been  issued  arising 

(v)  Any  claim  in  respect  of  any 

after the date of the notice shall be void 

property in relation to which a notice 

as against any demand contained in the 

under  these  regulations  has  been 

notice. 

issued  arising  after  the  date  of  the 

(vi)  Where  a  person  to  whom  a  notice 

notice  shall  be  void  as  against  any 

under this sub-section is sent objects to 

demand contained in the notice.  

it by a statement on oath that the sum 

(vi) Where a person to whom a notice 

demanded or any part thereof is not due 

under  this  sub-regulation 

is  sent 

to the assessee or that he does not hold 

objects  to  it  by  a  statement  on  oath 

any  money  for  or  on  account  of  the 

that  the  sum  demanded  or  any  part 

assessee, then nothing contained in this 

thereof  is not due to the defaulter or 

 
Page | 123  

 
 

 

sub-section shall be deemed to require 

that he does not hold any money for or 

such person to pay any such sum or part 

on  account  of  the  defaulter,  then 

thereof, as the case may be, but if  it is 

nothing  contained 

in 

this  sub-

discovered  that  such  statement  was 

regulation shall be deemed to require 

false  in  any  material  particular,  such 

such  person  to  pay  any  such  sum  or 

person shall be personally liable to the 

part thereof, as the case may be, but if 

Assessing  Officer  or  Tax  Recovery 

it  is  discovered  that  such  statement 

Officer to the extent of his own liability 

was  false  in  any  material  particular, 

to the assessee on the date of the notice, 

such person shall be personally liable 

or to the extent of the assessee's liability 

to the Recovery Officer to the extent of 

for  any  sum  due  under  this  Act, 

his own liability to the defaulter, or to 

whichever is less. 

the  extent  of  the  defaulter’s  liability 

(vii)  The  Assessing  Officer  or  Tax 

for  any  sum  due  under 

these 

Recovery  Officer  may,  at  any  time  or 

regulations, whichever is less. 

from time to time, amend or revoke any 

(vii) The Recovery Officer may, at any 

notice issued under this sub-section or 

time or from time to time, amend or 

extend 

the 

time 

for  making  any 

revoke  any  notice  issued  under  this 

payment in pursuance of such notice. 

sub-regulation or extend the time for 

(viii)  The  Assessing  Officer  or  Tax 

making any payment in pursuance of 

Recovery Officer shall grant a receipt for 

such notice. 

any amount paid in  compliance with  a 

(viii) The Recovery Officer shall grant 

notice  issued  under  this  sub-section, 

a  receipt  for  any  amount  paid  in 

and the person so paying shall be fully 

compliance with a notice issued under 

discharged  from  his  liability  to  the 

this sub-regulation, and the person so 

assessee to the extent of the amount so 

paying shall be fully discharged from 

paid. 

his  liability  to  the  defaulter  to  the 

(ix) Any person discharging any liability 

extent of the amount so paid. 

to the assessee after receipt of a notice 

(ix)  Any  person  discharging  any 

under 

this 

sub-section 

shall  be 

liability to the defaulter after receipt of 

personally 

liable 

to 

the  Assessing 

a  notice  under  this  sub-regulation 

 
Page | 124  

 
 

 

Officer  or  Tax  Recovery  Officer  to  the 

shall  be  personally 

liable  to  the 

extent of his own liability to the assessee 

Recovery  Officer  to  the  extent  of  his 

so  discharged  or  to  the  extent  of  the 

own 

liability  to  the  defaulter  so 

assessee's  liability  for  any  sum  due 

discharged  or  to  the  extent  of  the 

under this Act, whichever is less. 

defaulter’s  liability  for  any  sum  due 

(x) If the person to whom a notice under 

under these regulations, whichever is 

this  sub-section  is  sent  fails  to  make 

less. 

payment  in  pursuance  thereof  to  the 

(x)  Where  the  person  to  whom  a 

Assessing  Officer  or  Tax  Recovery 

notice  under  this  sub-regulation  is 

Officer,  he  shall  be  deemed  to  be  an 

sent, 

fails 

to  make  payment 

in 

assessee  in  default  in  respect  of  the 

pursuance  thereof  to  the  Recovery 

amount  specified  in  the  notice  and 

Officer,  he  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a 

further  proceedings  may  be  taken 

person  in  default  in  respect  of  the 

against  him  for  the  realisation  of  the 

amount  specified  in  the  notice  and 

amount as if it were an arrear of tax due 

further proceedings may be continued 

from  him,  in  the  manner  provided 

against  him for the realisation of  the 

in sections  222 to 225 and  the  notice 

amount  as  if  it  were  arrears  of  dues 

shall  have  the  same  effect  as  an 

from him, in the manner provided for 

attachment  of  a  debt  by  the  Tax 

under  these  regulations,  and  the 

Recovery  Officer  in  exercise  of  his 

notice shall have the same effect as an 

powers under section 222. 

attachment of a debt by the Recovery 

(4)  The  Assessing  Officer  or  Tax 

Officer in exercise of his powers under 

Recovery Officer may apply to the court 

these regulations. 

in  whose  custody  there 

is  money 

(4) The Recovery Officer may apply to 

belonging to the assessee for payment to 

the  court  in  whose  custody  money 

him  of  the  entire  amount  of  such 

belonging to the defaulter is available 

money, or, if it is more than the tax due, 

for  payment  to  him  of  the  entire 

an  amount  sufficient  to  discharge  the 

amount of such money, or, if it is more 

tax. 

than the dues, the amount sufficient to 

discharge the dues. 

 
Page | 125  

 
 

(5)  The  Assessing  Officer  or  Tax 

(5)  The  Recovery  Officer  may,  if  so 

Recovery  Officer  may,  if  so  authorised 

authorised by the Board by general or 

by the Principal Chief Commissioner or 

special order, recover any dues from a 

Chief  Commissioner  or  Principal 

defaulter  by  distraint  and  sale  of  his 

Commissioner  or  Commissioner  by 

movable property in the manner laid 

general  or  special  order,  recover  any 

down in these regulations. 

arrears of tax due from an assessee by 

distraint  and  sale  of  his  movable 

property in the manner laid down in the 

Third Schedule. 

 

VII.  Recovery 

through 

State 

 (provision  may  not  apply  in  the 

Government. 

context  of  securities  laws,  hence  no 

227. If  the  recovery  of  tax  in  any  area 

specific modification is suggested) 

has  been  entrusted 

to  a  State 

 

Government  under clause (1)  of article 

258  of  the  Constitution,  the  State 

Government may direct, with respect to 

that  area  or  any  part  thereof;  that  tax 

shall be recovered therein with, and as 

an  addition  to,  any  municipal  tax  or 

local rate, by the same person and in the 

same  manner  as  the  municipal  tax  or 

local rate is recovered. 

VIII.  Recovery  of  tax  in  pursuance  of 

(provision  may  not  apply  in  the 

agreements 

with 

foreign 

context  of  securities  laws,  hence  no 

countries. 

specific modification is suggested) 

228A. (1) Where  an  agreement 

is 

entered into by the Central Government 

with  the  Government  of  any  country 

 

 
Page | 126  

outside India for recovery of income-tax 

under  this  Act  and  the  corresponding 

law  in  force  in  that  country  and  the 

Government  of  that  country  or  any 

authority under that Government which 

is  specified  in  this  behalf  in  such 

agreement  sends 

to 

the  Board  a 

certificate  for  the  recovery  of  any  tax 

due under such corresponding law from 

a person having any  property in India, 

the Board may forward such certificate 

to  any  Tax  Recovery  Officer  within 

whose  jurisdiction  such  property  is 

situated  and 

thereupon  such  Tax 

Recovery Officer shall— 

(a)  proceed  to  recover  the  amount 

specified in the certificate in the manner 

in  which  he  would  proceed  to  recover 

the  amount  specified  in  a  certificate 

received  from  an  Income-tax  Officer; 

and 

(b) remit any sum so recovered by him 

to 

the  Board  after  deducting  his 

expenses 

in  connection  with 

the 

recovery proceedings. 

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  issue  of  a 

certificate under section 222 to the Tax 

Recovery  Officer,  where  an  assessee  is 

in default or is deemed to be in default 

in making a payment of tax, the Income-

 
 

 

 
Page | 127  

 
 

 

tax  Officer  may,  if  the  assessee  has 

property  in  a  country  outside  India 

(being a country with which the Central 

Government  has  entered 

into  an 

agreement  for  the  recovery  of  income-

tax 

under 

this  Act 

and 

the 

corresponding  law  in  force  in  that 

country),  forward  to  the  Board  a 

certificate  specifying  the  amount  of 

arrears  due  from  the  assessee  and  the 

Board may, take such action thereon as 

it may deem appropriate having regard 

to the terms of the agreement with such 

country. 

 

IX.  Recovery  of  penalties, 

fine, 

(section 28A provides the list of dues 

interest and other sums. 

that could be recovered, however no 

229. Any  sum  imposed  by  way  of 

specific modification is suggested) 

interest, fine, penalty, or any other sum 

payable under the provisions of this Act, 

shall  be  recoverable  in  the  manner 

provided 

in 

this  Chapter 

for 

the 

recovery of arrears of tax. 

 

X.  Recovery  by  suit  or  under  other 

Recovery by suit or under other 

law not affected. 

law not affected. 

232. The  several  modes  of  recovery 

The  several  modes  of 

recovery 

specified in this Chapter shall not affect 

specified in these regulations shall not 

in any way— 

affect in any way the right of the Board 

to  institute  a  suit  for  the  recovery  of 

 
Page | 128  

 
 

 

 

 (a) any other law for the time being 

the monies due from the defaulter and 

in force relating to the recovery 

it shall be lawful for the Board to have 

of debts due to Government; or 

recourse 

to 

any 

such 

suit, 

 (b) the right of the Government to 

notwithstanding that the amount due 

institute  a  suit  for  the  recovery 

is being recovered from the defaulter 

of  the  arrears  due  from  the 

by  any  mode  specified 

in  these 

assessee; 

regulations. 

and it shall be lawful for the Assessing 

 

Officer or the Government, as the case 

(May  be  useful  especially  in  the 

may be, to have recourse to any such law 

context  of  foreign  persons  to  enforce 

or suit, notwithstanding that the tax due 

demands) 

is being recovered from the assessee by 

any mode specified in this Chapter. 

SEBI may consider incorporating the aforesaid  provisions in its regulations to make it 

comprehensive as the provisions of sections 220 to 227, 228A, 229, 232, the Second and 

Third Schedules to the Income-tax Act, 1961 and the Income-tax (Certificate Proceedings) 

Rules, 1962 would then be part of the regulations with necessary modifications. 

 

 

 

 

 

VI.  KEY MODIFICATIONS TO THE PROCEDURE (UNDER THE INCOME-TAX ACT AND 

RULES) FOR RECOVERY OF DUES UNDER SECTION 28A 

The procedure pertaining to recovery of dues is exhaustively codified under the Second 

Schedule  to  Income-tax  Act,  1961  and  the  Income-tax  (Certificate  Proceedings)  Rules, 

1962.  The  Committee  has  considered  some  of  the  key  areas  in  which  changes  may  be 

required in the applicable procedure as suggested herein below:  

 

 

 
Page | 129  

 
 

 

 

 

 

RULE  8  OF  THE  SECOND  SCHEDULE  TO  THE  INCOME-TAX  ACT,  1961  – 

DISPOSAL OF PROCEEDS OF EXECUTION: 

Rationale for modification:  

 

The  Board  notified  the  36Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Appointment  of 

Administrator  and  Procedure  for  Refunding  to  the  Investors)  Regulations,  2018  on 

October 03, 2018. In Regulation 11 thereof, the costs of administration incurred by the 

Board, if any, and the fees and charges payable to the Administrator and other persons 

appointed  by  the  administrator  which  performing  its  functions  under  the  said 

regulations, is given priority over other claims. This is so because the administration costs 

are  incurred  to  ensure  that  monies  are  realized  to  repay  the  investors  or  recover  the 

disgorgement amount. It is suggested that along the said lines, the costs and expenses 

incurred in the course of execution of the certificate drawn up by the Recovery Officer 

may be given precedence over the other claims. There may be cases where the costs and 

expenses related to the execution and realization of the amount specified in the certificate 

could be higher than the amount that may be actually recovered through such process.  

SEBI may thus need to consider this aspect and decide the course of action to be taken in 

such cases accordingly.  

 

Suggested amendment:  

 

Provision  in  Second  Schedule  of 

Suggested amendment 

the Income-tax Act, 1961 

Disposal of proceeds of execution. 

Disposal of proceeds of execution. 

8. (1)  Whenever  assets  are  realised  by 

(1) Whenever monies are realized by sale 

sale  or  otherwise  in  execution  of  a 

of  the  properties  of  the  defaulter  or 

                                                           
36 Regulations for appointing an administrator for selling the properties of the defaulter for repaying to investors and 
recover disgorgement amount.  

 

 
Page | 130  

 
 

 

certificate, 

the  proceeds 

shall  be 

otherwise, 

in 

the  execution  of  a 

disposed  of  in  the  following  manner, 

certificate, 

the  proceeds 

shall  be 

namely :— 

disposed  of  in  the  following  order, 

 (a)  they  shall  first  be  adjusted 

namely:- 

towards  the  amount  due  under 

(a) costs  and  expenses  incurred  in 

the  certificate  in  execution  of 

the  course  of  execution  of  the 

which  the  assets  were  realised 

certificate;  

and  the  costs  incurred  in  the 

(b) the  principal  amount  due  under 

course of such execution; 

the certificate;  

 (b)  if  there remains  a  balance  after 

(c) interest  or  returns  as  may  be 

the  adjustment  referred  to  in 

recoverable under the certificate; 

clause  (a),  the  same  shall  be 

and 

utilised  for  satisfaction  of  any 

(d) where  there  is  more  than  one 

other  amount  recoverable  from 

certificate  drawn  up  against  a 

the assessee under this Act which 

defaulter,  the  Recovery  Officer 

may be due on the date on which 

shall  appropriate  the  amount 

the assets were realised; and 

recovered 

including 

interest, 

 (c)  the  balance,  if  any,  remaining 

costs,  charges  etc.  towards  the 

after 

the  adjustments  under 

dues arising first in time and then 

clauses (a) and (b) shall be paid 

proceed 

to 

appropriate 

the 

to the defaulter. 

balance  amount  recovered 

in 

(2) 

If 

the  defaulter  disputes  any 

respect 

of 

the 

remaining 

adjustment under clause (b) of sub-rule 

certificates. 

(1),  the  Tax  Recovery  Officer  shall 

(2)  Any  amount  remaining  after  the 

determine the dispute. 

adjustments 

referred 

to 

in 

sub-

 

regulation  (1),  shall  be  utilized  for 

satisfaction  of  any  other  amount 

recoverable from the defaulter under the 

Act, 

the 

Securities 

Contracts 

(Regulations)  Act, 

1956 

or 

the 

 
Page | 131  

 
 

 

 

 

 

Depositories Act, 1996 which may be due 

on  the  date  on  which  the  assets  were 

realized. 

(3) Any balance amount, remaining after 

the  adjustments  under  sub-regulations 

(1)  and  (2),  shall  be  returned  to  the 

defaulter.  

(4) 

If 

the  defaulter  disputes  any 

adjustment under the aforesaid clauses, 

the Recovery Officer shall determine the 

dispute. 

 

RULE 9 – GENERAL BAR TO JURISDICTION OF CIVIL COURTS, SAVE WHERE 

FRAUD ALLEGED. 

Rule 9 prescribes that a suit may be filed in a civil court in respect of a question relating 

to the execution, discharge or satisfaction of a certificate, or relating to the confirmation 

or  setting  aside  by  an  order  of  a  sale  held  in  execution  of  such  certificate  only  on  the 

ground of ‘fraud’.  

 

Rationale for modification:  

 

Since the Securities Appellate Tribunal is the appellate body in respect of orders passed 

by  the  Board  and  also  since  the  suit/appeal  referred  to  in  the  relevant  provisions  of 

Income-Tax Act and rules being followed by SEBI is an appeal to the Securities Appellate 

Tribunal, it is felt that the proviso to this provision allowing filing of a suit on the ground 

of fraud may be omitted. Any challenge to the recovery process/order could be challenged 

before the Securities Appellate Tribunal in terms of Explanation 3 to section 28A(1).  

 

 

 
Page | 132  

 
 

Suggested amendment:  

 

Provision  in  Second  Schedule  of 

Suggested amendment 

the Income-tax Act, 1961 

General bar to jurisdiction of civil 

General bar to jurisdiction of civil 

courts, save where fraud alleged. 

courts. 

9. Except 

as 

otherwise 

expressly 

Except  as  otherwise  expressly  provided 

provided  in  this  Act,  every  question 

in  these  regulations,  every  question 

arising between the Tax Recovery Officer 

arising  between  the Recovery  Officer 

and 

the 

defaulter 

or 

their 

and 

the 

defaulter 

or 

their 

representatives, 

relating 

to 

the 

representatives, 

relating 

to 

the 

execution, discharge or satisfaction of a 

execution, discharge or satisfaction of a 

certificate, 

or 

relating 

to 

the 

certificate, 

or 

relating 

to 

the 

confirmation or setting aside by an order 

confirmation or setting aside by an order 

under this Act of a sale held in execution 

under these regulations of a sale held in 

of  such certificate, shall  be determined, 

execution  of  such  certificate,  shall  be 

not  by  suit,  but  by  order  of  the  Tax 

determined, not by suit, but by order of 

Recovery  Officer  before  whom  such 

the Recovery Officer before whom such 

question arises : 

question arises:  

Provided that a suit may be brought in 

Provided that before passing any order, 

a  civil  court  in  respect  of  any  such 

the  Recovery  Officer  shall  afford  an 

question upon the ground of fraud. 

opportunity to the defaulter to make his 

 

 

representation  along  with  supporting 

evidence.  

 

RULE  39  –  PROCLAMATION  HOW  MADE,  RULE  50  –  PROCLAMATION  OF 

ATTACHMENT AND RULE 54 – MODE OF MAKING PROCLAMATION  

 

i.  Rule  39(1)  requires  the  proclamation  to  be  made  by  beat  of  drums  or  other 

customary mode.  

 
Page | 133  

 

 

 
 

ii.  Rule 50 requires that the order of attachment shall be proclaimed at some place on 

or  adjacent  to  the  property  attached  by  beat  of  drum  or  other  customary 

mode,  and  a  copy  of  the  order  shall  be  affixed  on  a  conspicuous  part  of  the 

property and on the notice board of the Tax Recovery Officer. 

iii.  Rule  54(1)  inter  alia  requires  every  proclamation  for  the  sale  of  immovable 

property to be made at some place on or near such property by beat of drum or 

other customary mode.  

 

Rationale for amendment:  

 

The “beat of drums” has become an outdated practice and impractical to enforce.  

 

 

Suggested amendment:  

 

Reference to the words “beat of drum or other customary mode” may be omitted in the 

said provisions and proclamation may be made by publication through newspapers and 

electronic modes.  

  

RULE 57 – DEPOSIT BY PURCHASER AND RESALE IN DEFAULT. 

 

 

The rules mandate the purchaser of immovable property to immediately (i.e. after he is 

declared  as  the  purchaser)  deposit  25%  of  the  purchase  money  and  the  full  purchase 

money to be paid by the purchaser on or before the 15th day from the sale of property. The 

provision to rule 57 is reproduced below:  

 

Rationale for modification:  

 

In order to provide extension of time to pay the entire purchase consideration, SEBI may 

consider  extending  the  period  of  15  days  to  three  months  subject  to  the  purchaser 

undertaking to pay interest on the balance amount with interest of 15% p.a.  

 

 
Page | 134  

 
 

 

Suggested amendment:  

 

Provision  in  Second  Schedule  of 

Suggested amendment 

the Income-tax Act, 1961 

Deposit by purchaser and resale in 

Deposit  by  the  purchaser  and 

default. 

resale in default. 

57. (1)  On  every  sale  of  immovable 

(1) On every sale of immovable property, 

property,  the person  declared  to  be  the 

the person declared to be the purchaser 

purchaser  shall  pay,  immediately  after 

shall immediately after such declaration 

such declaration, a deposit of twenty-five 

deposit  twenty-five  per  cent  of  the 

per cent on the amount of his purchase 

amount  of  purchase  money,  including 

money, to the officer conducting the sale; 

the  earnest  money,  with  the  officer 

and,  in  default  of  such  deposit,  the 

conducting the sale; and, upon default of 

property shall forthwith be resold. 

such deposit, the property shall be resold 

(2) The full amount of purchase money 

forthwith.  

payable shall be paid by the purchaser to 

(2) The full amount of purchase money 

the Tax Recovery Officer on or before the 

due shall be paid by the purchaser to the 

fifteenth day from the date of the sale of 

Recovery  Officer  on  or  before  the 

the property. 

 

 

fifteenth day from the date of the sale of 

the property. 

(3) The period of fifteen days under sub-

regulation  (2)  may  be  extended  by  a 

maximum  period  of  three  months, 

subject  to  the  purchaser  making  a 

request for such extension along with an 

undertaking  to  pay  the  remaining  sale 

price  together  with  interest  thereon  at 

the rate of fifteen per cent per annum for 

the period so extended.  

 
Page | 135  

 
 

(4) The application for extension of time 

for payment shall be accompanied by an 

unconditional  bank  guarantee  for  the 

remaining  outstanding  sale  price  and 

interest  thereon  at  the  rate  mentioned 

hereinabove 

for  a  period  of  three 

months. 

(5)  The  advertisement  regarding  the 

auction  for  sale  of  properties  shall 

appropriately  mention  that  extension 

may be granted to pay the consideration 

subject 

to 

compliance  with 

sub-

regulations (3) and (4).  

 

 

RULE 58 – PROCEDURE IN DEFAULT OF PAYMENT.  

 

 

As  per  this  provision,  the  deposit  amount  paid  by  the  defaulting  purchaser  would  be 

forfeited to the Government and the property shall be resold.  

 

Rationale for modification:  

Considering  that  expenses  would  be  incurred  while  reselling  the  property,  SEBI  may 

consider offering the property to the next highest bidder at a price equal to the bid made 

by the highest bidder (i.e. defaulting purchaser).  

 

Suggested amendment:  

 

 

Provision  in  Second  Schedule  of 

Suggested amendment 

the Income-tax Act, 1961 

Procedure in default of payment. 

Procedure in default of payment. 

 
Page | 136  

 
 

58. In  default  of  payment  within  the 

(1) Upon default  of  payment within the 

period mentioned in the preceding rule, 

period  mentioned 

in  the  preceding 

the  deposit  may,  if  the  Tax  Recovery 

regulation,  the  deposit  may, 

if  the 

Officer  thinks  fit,  after  defraying  the 

Recovery  Officer 

thinks 

fit,  after 

expenses of the sale, be forfeited to the 

defraying  the  expenses  of  the  sale,  be 

Government,  and  the  property  shall  be 

forfeited,  and  the  property  shall  be 

resold,  and  the  defaulting  purchaser 

resold,  and  the  defaulting  purchaser 

shall forfeit all claims to the property or 

shall forfeit all claims to the property or 

to any part of the sum for which it may 

any  part  of  the  sum  for  which  it  may 

subsequently be sold. 

subsequently be sold.  

(2) Without prejudice to sub-regulation 

(1), if the highest bidder fails to pay the 

purchase  price  in  accordance  with  the 

terms  of  sale,  the  property  may  be 

offered  to  the  next  highest  bidder  at  a 

price  equal  to  the  bid  made  by  the 

highest bidder.  

 

RULE 68B – TIME LIMIT FOR SALE OF ATTACHED IMMOVABLE PROPERTY.  

 

 

 

 

As per this rule, no sale of immovable property shall be made after the expiry of three 

years from the end of the financial year in which the order, giving rise to a demand of any 

tax,  interest,  fine,  penalty  or  any  other  sum,  for  the  recovery  of  which  the  immovable 

property has been attached, has become conclusive under the provisions of section 245-I 

or, as the case may be, final in terms of the provisions of Chapter XX: 

 

Where the immovable property is required to be re-sold due to the amount of highest bid 

being less than the reserve price or under the circumstances mentioned in rule 57 or rule 

58 or where the sale is set aside under rule 61, the aforesaid period of limitation for the 

sale of the immovable property shall stand extended by one year. 

 

 
Page | 137  

 
 

 

Rationale for modification:  

 

In the context of SEBI recovery, the time limits may not be made applicable, especially 

where monies are due for disgorgement or refundable to investors as such monies are not 

the assets of the defaulter.  

 

Suggested amendment: 

 

SEBI  may  consider  omission  of  Rule  68B  in  the  context  of  recovery  in  the  securities 

markets.  

 

 

 

 

 
Page | 138  

 
 

 

 

VII.  ENHANCEMENTS IN RECOVERY PROCESS 

The Committee is of the view that for better efficiency in the recovery process, certain 

enhancements  in  the  recovery  process  may  be  required.  Such  enhancements  to  the 

recovery process by way of regulations would further the purposes of the Act as specified 

in Section 30 of the SEBI Act (and analogous provisions in the SCRA and Depositories 

Act), the same would be perfectly valid. 

 

 

 

A.  DEFINE THE TERM “PROPERTY: 

Since properties of the defaulter are sought to be attached for the purposes of recovering 

the dues under the certificate drawn up under section 28A of the SEBI Act, it would be 

necessary to define the term “property”. This definition may be the same as used by SEBI 

in  its  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Appointment  of  Administrator  and 

Procedure for Refunding to the Investors) Regulations, 2018: 

"property"  means  and  includes  assets  of  any  kind,  whether  movable  or 

immovable,  tangible  or  intangible,  corporeal  or  incorporeal  and  includes 

securities, bank accounts, deposits, any right or interest or legal documents or 

instruments evidencing title to or interest in the property and where the property 

is capable of conversion into some other form, then the property in the converted 

form and also includes the proceeds from the property;”  

 

Since the term “property” includes “securities”, there may be no need to continue with the 

definition  of  the  expression  “share  in  a  corporation”  used  in  rule  1(g)  in  the  Second 

Schedule  of  the  Income-tax  Act,  1961.  Accordingly,  it  is  suggested  to  substitute  the 

expression “share in a corporation” wherever appearing in the proposed regulations with 

the word “securities”.  

 

 

 

 
Page | 139  

 
 

 

 

B.  SALE BY ELECTRONIC AUCTION FACILITY 

It is understood that SEBI utilizes the services of e-auction agencies for the purposes of 

auctioning and selling the attached properties. Further, e-auction is being conducted as a 

standard  process  in  respect  of  sale  of  assets  under  the  SARFAESI  Act,  DRT  etc.  This 

allows for wider participation and transparency in the procedure. It would therefore be 

appropriate to define the terms “e-auction” and “e-auction agency”.  

 

Suggested text is as follows,-.  

  “electronic  auction”  shall  mean  a  public  auction  conducted 

electronically; 

 

  “electronic  auction  agency”  shall  mean  any  company  providing  an 
electronic auction platform which is engaged by the Recovery Officer for 

the  purposes  of  auctioning  and  selling  the  attached  properties  in 

pursuance of these regulations; 

 

  “Sale to be by auction. 

The  sale  shall  be  by  public  auction,  which  may  be  conducted  through 

electronic  auction,  to  the  highest  bidder  and  shall  be  subject  to 

confirmation by the Recovery Officer: 

Provided that no sale under this regulation shall be made if the amount bid 

by the highest bidder is less than the reserve price, if any, specified.” 

 

 

 

 

C.  REGISTERED VALUER  

The role of a registered valuer is very vital to the recovery process as the said professional 

evaluates the attached property. This value is considered for fixing the ‘reserve price’. His 
 
Page | 140  

 

 
 

report should be treated as ‘confidential’. For clarity, it would be appropriate to define the 

term “registered valuer”, thereby restricting the categories of person who may be allowed 

to act as a ‘valuer’ under the proposed regulations. The expression “registered valuer” is 

also defined under certain Regulations framed by SEBI. 

 

Suggested text is as follows,-.  

 

 

“registered valuer” shall have the meaning assigned to it under the 

Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017 or any other 

statutory modification or re-enactment thereof;  

 

 

“Reserve price” 

(1) It shall be competent for the Recovery Officer to fix a reserve price in 

respect of any property, other than agricultural produce, below which 

such property shall not be sold. 

(2) Where a valuation is required to be made in respect of any property, 

the Recovery Officer may appoint a registered valuer for valuation of 

such property.  

(3)  The  valuation  report  submitted  by  a  registered  valuer  shall  be 

confidential.  

 

 

D. SERVICE OF NOTICES AND ORDERS 

 

 

It would be necessary to have clarity on the manner of service of notices and orders in the 

recovery process. The relevant provisions of the SEBI (Procedure for Holding Inquiry and 

Imposing Penalties) Rules, 1995 may be considered.  

 

 

 

 

 
Page | 141  

 
 

 

E.  POUNDAGE FEE 

The poundage fee is levied in respect of any sale made in execution of a certificate and 

paid by the purchaser of the defaulter’s property. SEBI may consider appropriating such 

fees as ‘costs’ of sale of properties in the recovery proceedings to reduce the amount of 

costs that is appropriated from the proceeds of sale of property.  

Further,  the  word  “poundage”  may  be  dropped  as  it  refers  to  payment  of  a  particular 

amount per pound sterling of the sum involved in a transaction which terminology is not 

relevant in the Indian context and is a residue of the British era. Accordingly, the word 

“fees” may be retained.  

 

Suggested amendment is as follows,-.  

 

“Levy and scale of poundage fees. 

(1) In respect of any sale made in the execution of a certificate, there shall be levied 

a fee by way of poundage on the gross amount realised by the sale………….. 

………….. 

(6)  The  poundage  fee  collected  under  this  regulation  shall  be  appropriated 

towards the cost of sale of the properties in execution of the certificate.” 

 

 

 

F.  DEPOSIT OF EARNEST MONEY 

Under the Income-Tax Rules, bids for purchase of any properties should be accompanied 

with payment of earnest money calculated at 10% of the reserve price, where the reserve 

price is up to Rs. 10 crore, subject to a minimum of Rs.50,000/- or Rs.10 lakh plus 5% on 

the remaining amount of reserve price, where the reserve price is above Rs.10 crore. The 

deposit of earnest money is stipulated in order to bring in seriousness on the persons who 

bid. Based on its experience, if SEBI considers that the prescribed percentage is in excess, 

SEBI may consider lowering the same.  

 

 

 
Page | 142  

 
 

Such earnest money may be returned to unsuccessful bidders within a period of 60 days 

from  the  date  of  confirmation  of  sale  without  interest.  The  earnest  money  should  be 

forfeited if the bidder does not participate in the auction or when he (after declared as 

successful bidder) fails to pay the 25% purchase money or on default of payment of the 

remaining sum of money. However, it is suggested that the earnest money should not be 

forfeited if the bidder is allowed extension of time to make the payment of bid price.  

Suggested text is as follows,-  

“Refund of earnest money. 

Earnest  money  deposited  by  unsuccessful  bidders  shall  be  refunded  without 

interest within sixty days from the date of confirmation of sale. 

 

Forfeiture of earnest money or other payments. 

Earnest money or any other part of the purchase price paid by a bidder shall be 

forfeited on the following circumstances: 

(a) the bidder not participating in the auction after successfully submitting 

the bid, or  

(b)  on  default  in  payment  of  twenty-five  per  cent  of  the  purchase  price, 

including the earnest money paid, immediately after the auction, or  

(c) on default in payment of remaining seventy-five per cent within fifteen 

days of the sale: 

Provided that the earnest money shall not be forfeited if time for making 

payment is extended in accordance with sub-regulation (3) of regulation 

85.” 

 

 

 

G. POWER TO SEEK INFORMATION:  

Section  28(4A)  of  the  Recovery  of  Debts  and  Bankruptcy  Act,  1993,  provides  that  the 

Recovery Officer may, by order, at any stage of the execution of the certificate of recovery 

require any person and in case of a company; any of its officers against whom or which 

the  certificate  of  recovery  is  issued,  to  declare  on  affidavit  the  particulars  of  his  or  its 

 

 
Page | 143  

 
 

assets. Such a power to seek information relating to assets and information that may aid 

in the recovery proceedings and execution of the certificate would be very useful for the 

Board. Accordingly, a provision to this effect is suggested.  

 

 

Suggested text is as follows, -  

 

  

“Power to seek information. 

(1) The Recovery Officer may at any stage of the execution of the certificate of 

recovery,  seek  from  any  person,  any  information  which  may  be  relevant  to 

execution of the certificate of recovery or to any investigation or inquiry by the 

Recovery Officer. 

(2) Without limiting generality of the foregoing provision, the Recovery Officer 

may at any stage of the execution of the certificate of recovery, require any person 

against whom the certificate of recovery is issued, and if such person is a body 

corporate from any of its officers, to declare on affidavit the particulars of his or 

its assets.” 

 

 

H.  PROVISION IN RESPECT OF PURCHASE BY GOVERNMENT.  

It is possible that a property may not have buyers even if such property is put up for sale 

thrice through public auction. In such a case, an option should be made available that the 

Board may offer such property to the Central Government or the State Government of a 

State  where  such  property  is  situated,  to  purchase  the  property  at  price  which  is 

equivalent to the reserve price or higher than such reserve price. This would enable the 

Government to purchase the property, if it desires and use it for public good or for its 

infrastructure needs.  

 

 

 
Page | 144  

 
 

Section 58 of the Bengal Land-Revenue Sales Act, 185937, which provides that ‘When an 

estate is put up for sale under this Act for the recovery of arrears of revenue due thereon, 

if there be no bid, the Collector or other officer as aforesaid may purchase the estate on 

account of the State Government for one rupee, or if the highest bid be insufficient to 

cover  the  said  arrears  and  those  subsequently  accruing  up  to  the  date  of  sale,  the 

Collector or other officer as aforesaid may take or purchase the estate on account of the 

State  Government  at  the  highest  amount  of  bid;  in  both  which  cases  the  State 

Government shall acquire the property subject to the provisions of the Act’. In Ramrao 

Jankiram Kadam v State of Bombay38 the Hon’ble Supreme Court inter alia held that 

only if a provision existed in the Bombay Land Revenue Code along the lines of Section 

58 of the Bengal Land-Revenue Sales Act, 1859 could such sales be called a public auction. 

Hence, the Committee is of the view that a provision may be made to enable purchase on 

behalf of the Central Government and State Governments so as to enable the Board to 

conclude  its  Recovery  proceedings  in  respect  of  properties  which  remain  unsold  after 

repeated auctions. 

 

Suggested text is as follows,-  

“Purchase by Government. 

When an immovable property is put up for sale for recovery of amounts due and 

if  the  property  remains  unsold,  the  Board  may,  after  giving  opportunity  to  the 

defaulter to furnish the amounts due under the certificate, offer the same to the 

Central Government or any State Government, who may submit a bid not lower 

than the reserve price and purchase the said property:  

 

Provided that, - 

i. 

offer to the Central or State Government under this regulation shall 

be made only in case two earlier auctions in respect of the said immoveable 

property have been unsuccessful; 

                                                           
37 An Act to improve the law relating to sales of land for arrears of revenue in Bengal Presidency.  
38 AIR 1963 SC 827, 1963 SCR Supp. (1) 322. 

 

 
Page | 145  

 
 

 

 

ii. 

the  Board  may  afford  such  time  as  may  be  deemed  fit  to  such 

Central or State Government to convey its willingness to purchase and to 

make payment of the consideration; and 

iii.  where the property is put up for sale for recovery of any penalty 

due or other amount payable to the Central Government and the reserve 

price  does  not  exceed  the  amount  due,  the  Central  Government  may 

acquire the property by extinguishing the liability of the defaulter equal to 

the reserve price.  

 

I.   RESIDUARY CLAUSE FOR DEVISING PROCEDURE FOR SITUATIONS NOT COVERED 

 

BY REGULATIONS 

It may also be necessary to provide for an enabling provision so that the Board can deal 

with unforeseen difficulties. An enabling provision would aid SEBI to devise a suitable 

procedure in such circumstances. 

 

 

 Suggested text is as follows,-  

“Power to determine procedure in certain circumstances.  

In a situation not provided for in these regulations, the Recovery Officer, with the 

approval of the Board, may determine the procedure for specific matters, as may 

be required.”  

 

Further, as generally seen in various SEBI Regulations, the proposed regulations may also 

provide for a regulation to enable the Board to issue clarifications in case any difficulty 

arises in the interpretation or applicability of the regulations.  

 

 

 

 
Page | 146  

 
 

 

 

J.  COMPREHENSIVE REGULATIONS TO AMALGAMATE PROVISIONS OF THE 

NOTIFIED ADMINISTRATOR REGULATIONS WITH THE PROPOSED RECOVERY 

REGULATIONS 

SEBI had notified the SEBI (Appointment of Administrator and Procedure for making 

Refunds  to  Investors)  Regulations,  2018  (“Administrator  Regulations”).  The  said 

regulations apply in respect of all or any of the following matters -  

(a) appointment  of  Administrator  pursuant  to  failure  to  comply  with 

disgorgement or refund orders passed by the Board; 

(b) sale of properties attached by the Recovery Officer of the Board under the 

Act; 

(c) collection of claim documents and verification of claims of investors for the 

purpose of effecting refunds; 

(d) refund  of  monies  to  the  investors  pursuant  to  disgorgement  or  refund 

orders passed by the Board; 

(e) recovery of disgorgement amounts directed by the Board; 

(f)  any act incidental or connected thereto. 

 

Since  the  Securities  and  Exchange Board  of  India (Appointment  of  Administrator  and 

Procedure for Refunding to the  Investors) Regulations, 2018 is intrinsically connected 

with ‘recovery’, SEBI may consider incorporating the provisions of such regulations into 

the proposed regulations for recovery.  

 

Accordingly, the draft regulations appended herein below have suitably incorporated the 

provisions of the Administrator Regulations also. When such comprehensive regulations 

dealing with recovery and administration are notified, then SEBI would be appropriately 

empowered to repeal the Administrator Regulations.  

 

 

 

 

 
Page | 147  

 
 

 

VIII.  DRAFT REGULATIONS 

The Committee recommends that the following regulations may be issued by the Board,- 

 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA  

EXTRA-ORDINARY  

PART –III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

NOTIFICATION  

Mumbai, the ….. day of ……., 2020  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (RECOVERY) 

REGULATIONS, 2020 

 

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 read with sub-section (1) of section 11 

and section 28A of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), 

section 23JB of the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 and section 19-IB of 

the Depositories Act, 1996, the Board hereby makes the following regulations to specify 

the  procedure  for  recovering  the  amounts  due  under  the  said  Acts  and  for  matters 

incidental or connected thereto, namely,- 

 

CHAPTER I 

 

PRELIMINARY 

 

Short title and commencement. 

1.  (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Recovery) Regulations, 2020. 

 

 
Page | 148  

 
 

 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their notification in the Official Gazette. 

 

Definitions. 

2.  (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,- 

(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 [15 of 1992]; 

(b) “Administrator” means a person registered with the Insolvency and Bankruptcy 

Board  of  India  as  an  Insolvency  Resolution  Professional  and  who  has  been 

engaged by the Recovery Officer for the purposes of these regulations.  

(c) “advertisement” includes, - 

(i) 

notices,  brochures,  pamphlets,  circulars,  showcards,  catalogues, 

hoardings,  placards,  posters,  insertions  in  newspapers,  pictures,  films 

and cover pages of offer documents; 

(ii) 

any  publicity  through  print  medium,  radio,  television  programmes  or 

electronic media; 

(d) “auditor” means a person qualified to audit the accounts of companies under the 

Companies Act, 2013; 

(e) “public auction” includes,- 

(i)  an electronic auction; and  

(ii) a purchase by the government under regulation 98. 

(f)  “Board” means the Securities and Exchange  Board of  India established  under 

section 3 of the Act; 

(g) "certificate"  means  the  statement  drawn  up  by  the  Recovery  Officer 

under section  28A  of  the  Act  or  section  23JB  of  the  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulations) Act, 1956 or section 19-IB of the Depositories Act, 1996, in respect 

of  any  defaulter  referred  to  in  those  sections,  and  shall  not  include  a  sale 

certificate; 

(h) “collective investment  scheme” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it 

under section 11AA of the Act and the regulations framed thereunder;  

(i)  "defaulter" means the person mentioned as the defaulter in the certificate; 

(j)  “electronic auction” shall mean a public auction conducted electronically; 

 
Page | 149  

 
 

 

 

(k) “electronic  auction  agency”  shall  mean  any  company  providing  an  electronic 

auction platform, which is engaged by the Recovery Officer for the purposes of 

auctioning and selling the attached properties in pursuance of these regulations; 

(l)  "execution" in relation to a certificate, means the recovery of dues in pursuance 

of the certificate; 

(m)  “investor” means the person, whether identified or not, in whose favour the 

refund of monies had been directed by the Board;  

(n) "property"  means  and  includes  assets  of  any  kind,  whether  movable  or 

immovable,  tangible  or  intangible,  corporeal  or  incorporeal  and  includes 

securities, bank accounts, deposits, any right or interest or legal documents or 

instruments evidencing title to or interest in the property and where the property 

is capable of conversion into some other form, then the property in the converted 

form and also includes the proceeds from the property; 

(o) "officer" means a person authorised to make an attachment or sale under these 

regulations; 

(p)  “Recovery Officer” means an officer of the Board, who is authorised by a general 

or  special  order  in  writing,  to  exercise  the  powers  of  a  recovery  officer  under 

section 28A of the Act or section 23JB of the Securities Contracts (Regulations) 

Act, 1956 or section 19IB of the Depositories Act, 1996; 

(q) “refund  order”  means  a  direction  of  the  Board,  issued  under  the  Act  or  the 

Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  or  the  Depositories  Act,  1996,  to 

refund monies to the investors;  

(r) “recovery proceedings” means the proceedings, initiated by a Recovery Officer, 

for  recovery  of  amounts  under  section  28A  of  the  Act  or  section  23JB  of  the 

Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 or section 19IB of the Depositories 

Act, 1996; 

(s) “registered valuer” shall have the meaning assigned to it under the Companies 

(Registered  Valuers  and  Valuation)  Rules,  2017  or  any  other  statutory 

modification or re-enactment thereof; 

 
Page | 150  

 
 

 

(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the 

Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the Depositories Act, 1996 or 

rules and regulations framed thereunder, shall have the meanings respectively assigned 

to them in such Acts or rules and regulations.  

 

CHAPTER II 

 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 

 

Amounts when payable.  

3.  (1) Any penalty or refund of monies or disgorgement of amounts or fees due to 

the Board, under the Act or the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or 

the Depositories Act, 1996, shall be paid within thirty days of service of notice or 

in terms of the regulations issued or an order passed by the Board: 

Provided  that  where  the  Recovery  Officer  has  reason  to  believe  that  it  will  be 

detrimental if the full period of thirty days as aforesaid is allowed, he may, with the 

previous approval of the Board, direct that the sum specified in the notice of demand 

shall be paid within such period being a period less than the period of thirty days, as 

may be specified by him in the notice of demand.  

Explanation. – The order imposing penalty, directing refund or directing disgorgement 

shall be deemed to be a notice of demand. 

 

(2) Where any notice of demand has been served upon any person and any appeal or 

other  proceeding,  as  the  case  may  be,  is  filed  or  initiated  in  respect  of  the  amount 

specified in the said notice of demand, either by the person or the Board, then such 

demand shall be deemed to be valid till the disposal of the proceedings, as the case may 

be, and any such notice of demand shall have the following effect:  

(a) where the dues are enhanced in such appeal or proceedings or interest accrues 

on such monies due to passage of time, another notice of demand only in respect 

of the amount by which such dues are enhanced, without the service of any fresh 

 
Page | 151  

 
 

 

notice of demand, be continued from the stage at which such proceedings stood 

immediately before such disposal;  

(b) where the dues are reduced in such appeal or proceedings, an intimation of the 

fact of such reduction to the person shall be issued;  

(c) no proceedings in relation to such dues (including the imposition of penalty or 

charging  of  interest)  shall  be  invalid  by  reason  only  that  no  fresh  notice  of 

demand  was  served  upon  the  person  after  the  disposal  of  such  appeal  or 

proceeding or that such dues have been enhanced or reduced in such appeal or 

proceeding:  

Provided that where any dues are reduced in such appeal or proceeding 

and the person is entitled to any refund thereof, such refund shall be made in 

accordance with the provisions of these regulations.  

(3) For removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that no fresh notice of demand shall be 

necessary in any case where the amount of dues is not varied as a result of any order 

passed in any appeal or other proceeding.  

 (4) The person who is liable to pay the dues as specified in sub- regulation (1), shall be 

liable to pay simple interest at the rate of 18% per annum on amounts in default from 

the date such amounts became due or from the date of passing of the original order by 

the Board or the Adjudicating Officer till the date of actual payment or realization of 

such dues, whichever is earlier: 

Provided that where the amount of dues has been enhanced or reduced by virtue 

of any order passed in appeal or proceedings, the interest thereon shall be enhanced or 

reduced accordingly.  

 (5) Where the  Recovery  Officer  draws  up  any  notice of  demand  or  a certificate,  the 

Recovery Officer shall include therein the interest as specified above.  

(6) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in this regulation, on an application 

made by  the  person  before the  expiry  of  the  due  date  under  sub-  regulation  (1),  the 

Board or the Recovery Officer on approval of the Board, for reasons to be recorded in 

writing, may extend the time for payment or allow payment by instalments, subject to 

such conditions as may be imposed considering the facts and circumstances of the case: 

 
Page | 152  

 
 

 

Provided that extension of time or payment by instalments shall not be granted beyond 

a period of twenty-four months from the date of expiry of the period specified in sub-

regulation (1).  

(7) If the amount is not paid within the time specified in sub- regulation (1) or extended 

under  sub-regulation  (6),  as  the  case  may  be,  the  person  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in 

default.  

(8) Where payment by instalments is allowed under sub-regulation (6), the person who 

commits a default in paying any one of the instalments within the time fixed under that 

sub-regulation, shall  be deemed to be in default as to the whole of the amount then 

outstanding, and the other instalment or instalments shall be deemed to have been due 

on the same date as the instalment which is actually in default. 

(9) Where the person has presented an appeal before the Securities Appellate Tribunal, 

the Board or the Recovery Officer may in his discretion and subject to such conditions 

as he may think fit to impose in the circumstances of the case, and for reasons to be 

recorded in writing, treat the person as not being in default in respect of the amount 

due, even though the  time for payment  has  expired,  as long  as such appeal  remains 

undisposed of. 

 

Liability for other action.  

4.  A person in default or deemed to be in default in making payment of dues, in 

addition to the amount which is due and the amount of interest payable on such 

dues, may be liable for other action under the Act or the  Securities Contracts 

(Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996, as may be applicable. 

 

 

Certificate. 

5.  (1) When a person is in default or is deemed to be in default in making a payment 

of dues, namely, -  

(e) a  penalty  imposed  by  the  adjudicating  officer  under  the  Act,  the  Securities 

Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996; or 

 
Page | 153  

 
 

 

(f)  any amount payable on failure of any person to refund any monies as directed 

by the Board; or 

(g) any amount payable on failure of any person to disgorge monies as directed 

by the Board; or 

(h) any fees due to the Board,  

the  Recovery  Officer  shall  draw  up  under  his  signature,  a  written  statement  in  the 

form mentioning  the  amount  due from such person (such statement being hereafter 

referred to as "certificate") and shall proceed to recover from such person the amount 

specified in the certificate by one or more of the modes specified in these regulations 

and in accordance with these regulations. 

(2)  The  Recovery  Officer  may  take  action  under  sub-regulation  (1),  notwithstanding 

that proceedings for recovery of the arrears by any other mode have been taken.  

 

Issue of notice. 

6.  (1) When a certificate has been drawn up by the Recovery Officer for recovery of 

amounts from the defaulter, a notice shall be caused to be served by the Recovery 

Officer upon the defaulter requiring such defaulter to pay the amounts specified 

in the certificate within a period of fifteen days from the date of service of the 

notice.  

(2) The notice mentioned in sub-regulation (1) shall put the defaulter on notice that in 

case of default in complying with the notice, steps would be taken under the provisions 

of the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996, 

as  the  case  may  be,  and  these  regulations  to  realize  the  amount  as  specified  in  the 

certificate. 

 

 

Mode of recovery. 

7.  If  the  amount  mentioned  in  the  notice  is  not  paid  within  the  time  specified 

therein  or  within  such  further  time  as  the  Recovery  Officer  may  grant  in  his 

 
Page | 154  

 
 

 

discretion, the Recovery Officer shall proceed to realise the amount by  one or 

more of the following modes:— 

(a) by attachment and sale of the defaulter’s movable property; 

(b) by attachment of the defaulter's bank accounts; 

(c) by attachment and sale of the defaulter’s immovable property; 

(d) by arrest of the defaulter and his detention in prison; 

(e)  by  appointing  a  receiver  for  the  management  of  the  defaulter’s  movable  and 

immovable properties.  

Recovery Officer by whom recovery is to be effected. 

8.  (1) The Recovery Officer competent to take action shall be— 

 (a)  the  Recovery  Officer  within  whose  jurisdiction  the  person  carries  on  his 

business or profession or within whose  jurisdiction the principal place of  his 

business or profession is situate, or 

 (b)  the  Recovery  Officer  within  whose  jurisdiction  the  person  resides  or  any 

movable or immovable property of the person is situate, or  

the jurisdiction for this purpose being the jurisdiction assigned to the Recovery Officers 

under the orders or directions issued by the Board.  

(2)  Where  a person  has property  within the  jurisdiction  of  more than  one  Recovery 

Officer and the Recovery Officer by whom the certificate is drawn up— 

 (a)  is  not  able  to  recover  the  entire  amount  by sale  of  the property,  movable  or 

immovable, within his jurisdiction, or 

 (b) is of the opinion that, for the purpose of expediting or securing the recovery of 

the whole or any part of the amount, it is necessary so to do, 

he may send the certificate or, where only a part of the amount is to be recovered, a copy 

of  the  certificate  certified  in  the  specified  manner  and  specifying  the  amount  to  be 

recovered  to  a  Recovery  Officer  within  whose  jurisdiction  the  person  resides  or  has 

property and, thereupon, that Recovery Officer shall also proceed to recover the amount 

under these regulations as if the certificate or a copy thereof had been drawn up by him. 

 

 

 
Page | 155  

 
 

 

Validity of certificate and cancellation or amendment thereof. 

9.  No person shall be allowed to dispute the correctness of any certificate drawn up 

by the Recovery Officer on any ground whatsoever, but it shall be lawful for the 

Recovery Officer to cancel the certificate if, for any reason, he thinks it necessary 

so to do, or to correct any clerical or mathematical error therein. 

 

Stay  of  proceedings  in  pursuance  of  certificate  and  amendment  or 

cancellation thereof. 

10. (1) It shall be lawful for the Recovery Officer to grant time for the payment of any 

dues and when he does so, he shall stay the proceedings for the recovery of such 

dues until the expiry of the time so granted. 

(2) Where the order giving rise to a demand of dues for which a certificate has been 

drawn  up  is  modified  in  appeal  or  other  proceeding  under  the  Act  or  the  Securities 

Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996, and, as a consequence 

thereof,  the  demand  is  reduced  but  the  order  is  the  subject-matter  of  further 

proceedings under the said laws, the Recovery Officer shall stay the recovery of such 

part of the amount specified in the certificate as pertains to the said reduction for the 

period for which the appeal or other proceeding remains pending. 

(3)  Where  a  certificate  has  been  drawn  up  and  subsequently  the  amount  of  the 

outstanding demand is reduced as a result of an appeal or other proceeding under the 

Acts mentioned in sub-regulation (2), the Recovery Officer shall, when the order which 

was  the  subject-matter  of  such  appeal  or  other  proceeding  has  become  final  and 

conclusive, amend the certificate, or cancel it, as the case may be. 

 

 

 

Other modes of recovery. 

11. (1) Where a certificate has been drawn up, the Recovery Officer may, without 

prejudice to the modes of recovery specified in regulation 7, recover the dues by 

any one or more of the other modes provided in these regulations. 

 
Page | 156  

 
 

 

(2) If any person is in receipt of any income in the nature of salary, the Recovery Officer 

may require any person paying the same to deduct from any payment subsequent to the 

date of such requisition any dues from such person, and such person shall comply with 

any such requisition and shall pay the sum so deducted to the credit of the Board or as 

directed by the Recovery Officer: 

Provided that any part of the salary exempt from attachment in execution of a decree of 

a civil court under section 60 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall be 

exempt from any requisition made under this sub-regulation.  

(3)  

(i)  The  Recovery  Officer  may,  at  any  time  or  from  time  to  time,  by  notice  in 

writing require any person from whom money is due or may become due to the 

defaulter or any person who holds or may subsequently hold money for or on 

account of the defaulter to pay to the Recovery Officer either forthwith upon the 

money becoming due or being held or at or within the time specified in the notice 

(not being before the money becomes due or is held) so much of the money as is 

sufficient to pay the amount due by the defaulter in respect of dues or the whole 

of the money when it is equal to or less than that amount. 

Provided  that  wherever  the  defaulter  has  a  right  to  demand  payment  of  any 

amount before such amount becomes payable under any contract, certificate or 

instrument, it shall be lawful for the Recovery Officer to demand payment of the 

amount forthwith.  

(ii) A notice under this sub-regulation may be issued to any person who holds or 

may subsequently hold any money for or on account of the defaulter jointly with 

any other person and for the purposes of this sub-regulation the shares of the 

joint holders in such account shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, to 

be equal. 

(iii) A copy of the notice shall be forwarded to the defaulter at his last address 

known to the Recovery Officer, and in the case of a joint account to all the joint 

holders at their last addresses known to the Recovery Officer. 

(iv) Save as otherwise provided in this sub-regulation, every person to whom a 

notice is issued under this sub-regulation shall be bound to comply with such 

 
Page | 157  

 
 

 

notice, and, in particular, where any such notice is issued to a post office, banking 

company  or  an  insurer,  it  shall  not  be  necessary  for  any  pass  book,  deposit 

receipt,  policy  or  any  other  document  to  be  produced  for  the  purpose  of  any 

entry,  endorsement  or  the  like  being  made  before  payment  is  made, 

notwithstanding any rule, practice or requirement to the contrary.  

(v) Any claim in respect of any property in relation to which a notice under these 

regulations has been issued arising after the date of the notice shall be void as 

against any demand contained in the notice.  

(vi) Where a person to whom a notice under this sub-regulation is sent objects 

to it by a statement on oath that the sum demanded or any part thereof is not 

due to the defaulter or that he does not hold any money for or on account of the 

defaulter,  then  nothing  contained  in  this  sub-regulation  shall  be  deemed  to 

require such person to pay any such sum or part thereof, as the case may be, but 

if it is discovered that such statement was false in any material particular, such 

person shall be personally liable to the Recovery Officer to the extent of his own 

liability  to  the  defaulter  on  the  date  of  the  notice,  or  to  the  extent  of  the 

defaulter’s liability for any sum due under these regulations, whichever is less. 

(vii)  The  Recovery  Officer  may,  at  any  time  or  from  time  to  time,  amend  or 

revoke any notice issued under this sub-regulation or extend the time for making 

any payment in pursuance of such notice. 

(viii)  The  Recovery  Officer  shall  grant  a  receipt  for  any  amount  paid  in 

compliance  with  a notice  issued  under  this sub-regulation,  and  the  person  so 

paying shall be fully discharged from his liability to the defaulter to the extent of 

the amount so paid. 

(ix) Any person discharging any liability to the defaulter after receipt of a notice 

under this sub-regulation shall be personally liable to the Recovery Officer to the 

extent of his own liability to the defaulter so discharged or to the extent of the 

defaulter’s liability for any sum due under these regulations, whichever is less. 

(x) If the person to whom a notice under this sub-regulation is sent fails to make 

payment in pursuance thereof to the Recovery Officer, he shall be deemed to be 

 
Page | 158  

 
 

 

a person in default in respect of the amount specified in the notice and further 

proceedings may be taken against him for the realisation of the amount as if it 

were due from him, and the notice shall have the same effect as an attachment 

of  a  debt  by  the  Recovery  Officer  in  exercise  of  his  powers  under  these 

regulations. 

(4) The Recovery Officer may apply to the court or tribunal in whose custody there is 

money  belonging  to  the  defaulter  for  payment  to  him  of  the  entire  amount  of  such 

money, or, if it is more than the dues, an amount sufficient to discharge the dues. 

(5) The Recovery Officer may, if so authorised by the Board by general or special order, 

recover any dues from a defaulter by distraint and sale of his movable property in the 

manner laid down in these regulations. 

 

Service of notices and orders. 

12. A notice or an order issued in execution of a certificate shall be served upon a 

person in the following manner:  

(a) by delivering or tendering it to that person or his duly authorised agent; or 

(b) by sending it to the person by fax or electronic mail or courier or speed post with 

acknowledgement due or registered post with acknowledgement due to the address 

of his place of residence or his last known place of residence or the place where he 

carried on, or last carried on, business or personally works, or last worked, for gain:  

Provided that a notice sent by fax shall bear a note that the same is being sent by 

facsimile  and  in  case  the  document  contains  annexure(s),  the  number  of  pages 

being sent shall also be mentioned:  

Provided further that a notice sent through electronic mail shall be digitally signed 

by  the  Recovery  Officer  and  bouncing  of  the  electronic  mail  shall  not  constitute 

valid service. 

(c) if the notice cannot be served under clause (a) or clause (b), by affixing it on the 

outer door or some other conspicuous part  of the premises in which that person 

resides or is known to have last resided, or carries on business or personally works 

 
Page | 159  

 
 

 

or last worked for gain and a written report of such affixture should be witnessed 

by two persons;  

(d) if the notice cannot be affixed as per clause (c), by publishing the notice in at 

least  two  newspapers,  one  in  an  English  daily  newspaper  having  nationwide 

circulation and another in a newspaper having wide circulation published  in the 

language of the region where that person was last known to have resided or carried 

on business or personally worked for gain. 

When certificate may be executed. 

13. No step in execution of a certificate shall be taken until the period of fifteen days 

has elapsed since the date of the service of the notice required under regulation 

6: 

Provided that if the Recovery Officer is satisfied that the defaulter is likely to conceal, 

remove, transfer or dispose of the whole or any part of such of his property as would be 

liable to attachment and that the realization of the amount of the certificate would in 

consequence  be  delayed  or  obstructed,  he  may  at  any  time  direct,  for  reasons  to  be 

recorded in writing, an attachment of the whole or any part of such property: 

Provided further that if the defaulter whose property has been so attached furnishes 

security to the satisfaction of the Recovery Officer, such attachment shall be cancelled 

from the date on which such security is accepted by the Recovery Officer.  

 

Interest, costs and charges recoverable. 

14. In addition to the amount payable under the order giving rise to the certificate, 

there shall be recoverable, in the proceedings in execution of every certificate,— 

(a)  such  interest  on  the  amount  to  which  the  certificate  relates  as  is  payable  in 

accordance with securities laws; and 

(b) all charges incurred in respect of— 

(i) the service of notice upon the defaulter to pay the arrears, and of warrants and 

other processes, and 

(ii) all other proceedings taken for realising the arrears. 

 

 
Page | 160  

 
 

 

Purchaser’s title.  

15. (1) Where property is sold in execution of  a certificate, there shall vest in the 

purchaser merely the right, title and interest of the defaulter at the time of the 

sale, even though the property itself be specified.  

(2) Where immovable property is sold in execution of a certificate, and such sale has 

become absolute, the purchaser’s right, title and interest shall be deemed to have vested 

in him from the time when the property is sold, and not from the time when the sale 

becomes absolute. 

 

Suit  against  purchaser  not  maintainable  on  ground  of  purchase  being 

made on behalf of plaintiff. 

16. (1)  No  suit  shall  be  maintained  against  any  person  claiming  title  under  a 

purchase  certified  by  the  Recovery  Officer  in  the  manner  laid  down  in  these 

regulations, on the ground that the purchase was made on behalf of the plaintiff 

or on behalf of someone through whom the plaintiff claims. 

(2) Nothing in this regulation shall bar a suit to obtain a declaration that the name of 

any  purchaser  certified  as  aforesaid  was  inserted  in  the  certificate  fraudulently  or 

without the consent of the real purchaser, or interfere with the right of a third person 

to proceed against that property, though ostensibly sold to the certified purchaser, on 

the ground that it is liable to satisfy a claim of such third person against the real owner. 

 

Disposal of proceeds of execution. 

17. (1) Whenever monies are realized by sale of  the properties of the defaulter or 

otherwise, in execution of a certificate, the proceeds shall be disposed of in the 

following order, namely:- 

(a) costs and expenses incurred in the course of execution of the certificate;  

(b) the principal amount due under the certificate;  

(c) interest or returns as may be recoverable under the certificate; and 

 

 
Page | 161  

 
 

 

(d) where  there  is  more  than  one  certificate  drawn  up  against  a  defaulter,  the 

Recovery  Officer  shall  appropriate  the  amount  recovered  including  interest, 

costs,  charges  etc.  towards  the  dues  arising  first  in  time  and  then  proceed  to 

appropriate  the  balance  amount  recovered  in  respect  of  the  remaining 

certificates. 

(2) Any amount remaining after the adjustments referred to in sub-regulation (1), shall 

be utilized for satisfaction of any other amount recoverable from the defaulter under 

the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulations) Act, 1956 or the Depositories Act, 1996 

which may be due on the date on which the assets were realized. 

(3)  Any  balance  amount,  remaining  after  the  adjustments  under  the  preceding  sub-

regulations, shall be returned to the defaulter.  

(4) If the defaulter disputes any adjustment under the aforesaid clauses, the Recovery 

Officer shall determine the dispute. 

 

General bar to jurisdiction of civil courts. 

18. Except  as  otherwise  expressly  provided  in  these  regulations,  every  question 

arising between the Recovery Officer and the defaulter or their representatives, 

relating to the execution, discharge or satisfaction of a certificate, or relating to 

the confirmation or setting aside by an order under these regulations of a sale 

held  in  execution  of  such  certificate,  shall  be  determined  by  an  order  of  the 

Recovery Officer before whom such question arises:  

Provided that before passing any order, the Recovery Officer shall afford an opportunity 

to the defaulter to make his representation along with supporting evidence.  

 

Property exempt from attachment. 

19. (1)  All  such  property  as  is  by  the  Code  of  Civil  Procedure,  1908  (5  of  1908), 

exempted from attachment and sale in execution of a decree of a civil court shall 

be exempt from attachment and sale under these regulations. 

(2) The decision of the Recovery Officer as to what property is so entitled to exemption 

shall be conclusive.  

 
Page | 162  

 
 

 

Investigation by Recovery Officer. 

20. (1) Where any claim is preferred to, or any objection is made to the attachment 

or  sale  of,  any  property  in  execution  of  a  certificate,  on  the  ground  that  such 

property  is  not  liable  to  such  attachment  or  sale,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall 

proceed to investigate the claim or objection: 

Provided that no such investigation shall be made where the Recovery Officer considers 

that the claim or objection was designedly or unnecessarily delayed.  

(2) Where the property to which the claim or objection applies has been advertised for 

sale, the Recovery Officer ordering the sale may postpone it pending the investigation 

of the claim or objection, upon such terms as to security or otherwise as the Recovery 

Officer shall deem fit. 

(3) The claimant or objector must adduce evidence to show that— 

(a) in the case of immovable property; at the date of the service of the notice issued 

under these regulations to pay the arrears, or 

(b) in the case of movable property; at the date of the attachment, 

he had some interest in, or was possessed of the property in question. 

(4)  Whereupon  the  said  investigation,  the  Recovery  Officer  is  satisfied  that,  for  the 

reason stated in the claim or objection, such property was not, at the said date, in the 

possession of the defaulter or of some person in trust for him or in the occupancy of a 

tenant  or  other  person  paying  rent  to  him,  or  that,  being  in  the  possession  of  the 

defaulter at the said date, it was so in his possession, not on his own account or as his 

own property, but on account of or in trust for some other person, or partly on his own 

account and partly on account of some other person, the Recovery Officer shall make 

an  order  releasing  the  property,  wholly  or  to  such  extent  as  he  thinks  fit,  from 

attachment or sale. 

(5) Where the Recovery Officer is satisfied that the property was, at the said date, in the 

possession of the defaulter as his own property and not on account of any other person, 

or was in the possession of some other person in trust for him, or in the occupancy of a 

tenant or other person paying rent to him, the Recovery Officer shall disallow the claim. 

 

 
Page | 163  

 
 

 

Provided that before disallowing the claim, an opportunity of hearing may be granted 

to the person objecting to the attachment.  

(7)  Where,  in  the  course  of  investigation,  the  Recovery  Officer  is  satisfied  that  the 

property is subject to a mortgage or charge (other than a mortgage or charge referred 

to in rule 16 of the Second Schedule to the Income-tax Act) in favour of a person not in 

possession, and thinks fit to continue the attachment, he may do so, subject to such 

mortgage or charge. 

 

Removal of attachment on satisfaction or cancellation of certificate. 

21. Where — 

(a)  the  amount  due,  with  costs  and  all  charges  and  expenses  resulting  from  the 

attachment  of  any property  or  incurred  in  order  to  hold  a  sale,  are  paid  to  the 

Recovery Officer, or 

(b) the certificate is cancelled, 

the  attachment  shall  be  deemed  to  be  withdrawn  and,  in  the  case  of  immovable 

property, the withdrawal shall, if the defaulter so desires, be proclaimed at his expense, 

and  a  copy  of  the  proclamation  shall  be  affixed  in  the  manner  provided  by  these 

regulations for a proclamation of sale of immovable property. 

 

 

 

Entrustment of functions by Recovery Officer. 

22. (1) The attachment and sale of property may be made by such persons as the 

Recovery Officer may from time to time direct. 

(2)  The  Recovery  Officer  may,  as may  be  approved  by  the  Board,  entrust  any  of  his 

functions as a Recovery Officer to any other officer lower than him in rank and such 

officer shall, in relation to the functions so entrusted to him, be deemed to be a Recovery 

Officer. 

 

Reserve price.  

 

 
Page | 164  

 
 

 

23. (1) It shall be competent for the Recovery Officer to fix a reserve price in respect 

of  any  property,  other  than  agricultural  produce,  below  which  such  property 

shall not be sold.  

(2) Where valuation is required to be made in respect of any property for the purposes 

of these regulations, the Recovery Officer may appoint a registered valuer for valuation 

of such property.  

(3) The valuation report submitted by a registered valuer shall be confidential.  

 

Proclamation of sale. 

24. For the purpose of ascertaining the matters to be specified in a proclamation of 

sale, the Recovery Officer may summon any person whom he thinks necessary 

to  summon  and  may  examine  him  in  respect  of  any  matters  relevant  to  the 

proclamation  and  require  him  to  produce  any  document  in  his  possession  or 

power relating thereto. 

 

Auction of properties. 

25. (1) Notwithstanding anything in these regulations, public auction of properties 

in execution of recovery certificate may be conducted through an auction made 

through an electronic platform.  

(2) The electronic auction specified at sub-regulation (1) may be conducted through an 

electronic auction platform, if any, of the Board or by engaging an electronic auction 

agency.  

 

 

Levy and scale of fees. 

26. (1) In respect of any sale made in the execution of a certificate, there shall be 

levied a fee on the gross amount realised by the sale, calculated at the rate of two 

per cent. on such gross amount up to rupees one thousand and at the rate of one 

per cent on the excess of such gross amount over rupees one thousand. 

 
Page | 165  

 
 

 

(2) The fee leviable under sub-regulation (1) shall be calculated on multiples of rupees 

twenty-five, that is to say, a fee of fifty paise shall be levied for every rupee twenty-five, 

or part of rupees twenty-five, realised by the sale up to rupees one thousand and in the 

case  of  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  exceeding  rupees  one  thousand,  an  additional  fee  of 

twenty-five  paise  for  every  rupee  twenty-five  or  part  thereof  on  the  excess  of  such 

amount over rupees one thousand, shall be levied. 

(3) Where the sale is in more than one lot, the fee shall be calculated with reference to 

the sale proceeds of each lot separately. 

(4) The fee under sub-regulation (1) shall be paid by the purchaser of the property along 

with payment of remaining purchase price to be paid under these regulations. 

(5)  When  a  sale  of  immovable  property  is  set  aside  under  sub-regulation  (2)  of 

regulation 89, the Recovery Officer may make an order for payment, by the defaulter or 

by the person at whose instance the sale is set aside, of the fees paid by the purchaser of 

the property. 

(6) The fee collected under this regulation shall be appropriated towards the cost of sale 

of the properties in execution of the certificate. 

 

Defaulting purchaser answerable for loss on resale. 

27. Any  deficiency  of  price  which  may  happen  on  a  resale  by  reason  of  the 

purchaser’s default, and all expenses attending such resale, shall be recoverable 

from  the  defaulting  purchaser  under  the  procedure  provided  by  these 

regulations: 

Provided that no such application shall be entertained unless filed within fifteen days 

from the date of resale.  

 

Adjournment or stoppage of sale. 

28. (1) The Recovery Officer may, in his discretion, adjourn any sale hereunder to a 

specified  day  and  hour;  and  the  officer  conducting  any  such  sale  may,  in  his 

discretion, adjourn the sale, recording his reasons for such adjournment. 

 
Page | 166  

 
 

 

(2) Where  a sale  of  immovable  property  is  adjourned  under  sub-regulation  (1)  for  a 

longer  period  than  one  calendar  month,  a  fresh  proclamation  of  sale  shall  be  made 

unless the defaulter consents to waive it. 

(3) Every sale shall be stopped if, before the lot is knocked down, the arrears and costs 

(including the costs of the sale) are tendered to the officer conducting the sale, or proof 

is given to his satisfaction that the amount of such arrears and costs has been paid to 

the Recovery Officer who ordered the sale. 

 

Private alienation to be void in certain cases. 

29. (1)  Where  a  notice  has  been  served  on  a  defaulter  under  regulation  6,  the 

defaulter or his representative in interest shall not be competent to mortgage, 

charge, lease or otherwise deal with any property belonging to him except with 

the permission of the Recovery Officer, nor shall any civil court issue any process 

against such property in execution of a decree for the payment of money. 

(2) Where an attachment has been made under these regulations, any private transfer 

or delivery of the property attached or of any interest therein and any payment to the 

defaulter of any debt, dividend or other moneys contrary to such attachment, shall be 

void as against all claims enforceable under the attachment. 

(3)  The  sub-regulations  (1)  and  (2)  shall  apply  mutatis  mutandis  in  case  of  any 

attachment under securities laws which has been ordered prior to initiation of recovery 

proceedings under these regulations. 

 

Prohibition against bidding or purchase by officer. 

30. No person having any duty to perform in connection with any sale under these 

regulations  shall,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  bid  for,  acquire  or  attempt  to 

acquire any interest in the property sold.  

 

Prohibition against sale on holidays. 

31. No  sale  under  this  regulation  shall  take  place  on  a  Sunday  or  other  general 

holidays  recognised  by  the  Central  Government  or  the  concerned  State 

 
Page | 167  

 
 

 

Government  or  on  any  day  which  has  been  notified  by  the  concerned  State 

Government to be a local holiday for the area in which the sale is to take place. 

Assistance by police. 

32. Any Officer authorised to attach or sell any property or to arrest the defaulter or 

charged with any duty to be performed under these regulations, may apply to the 

officer-in-charge  of  the  nearest  Police  Station  for  such  assistance  as  may  be 

necessary  in  the  discharge  of  his  duties,  and  the  authority  to  whom  such 

application  is  made  shall  depute  sufficient  number  of  Police  Officers  for 

providing such assistance.  

 

CHAPTER III 

 

ATTACHMENT AND SALE OF MOVABLE PROPERTY 

 

PART I – ATTACHMENT 

 

Warrant. 

33. Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, when any movable property 

is to be attached, the Officer shall be furnished by the Recovery Officer (or other 

officer empowered by him in that behalf) a warrant in writing and signed with 

his name specifying the name of the defaulter and the amount to be realized.  

 

Service of copy of warrant. 

34. The Officer shall cause a copy of the warrant to be served on the defaulter. 

 

Attachment. 

35. If, after service of the copy of the warrant, the amount is not paid forthwith, the 

Officer shall proceed to attach the movable property of the defaulter. 

Property in defaulter’s possession. 

 

 
Page | 168  

 
 

 

36. Where the property to be attached is movable property (other than agricultural 

produce) in the possession of the defaulter, the attachment shall be made by the 

actual seizure and the Officer shall keep the property in his own custody or the 

custody  of  one  of  his  subordinates  and  shall  be  responsible  for  due  custody 

thereof: 

Provided that when the property seized is subject to speedy and natural decay or when 

the expense of keeping it in custody is likely to exceed its value, the Officer may sell it 

at once, in such manner as deemed fit and necessary.  

 

Agricultural produce. 

37. (1) Where the property to be attached is agricultural produce, the attachment 

shall be made by affixing a copy of the warrant of attachment— 

(a) where such produce is growing crop—on the land on which such crop has grown, 

or 

(b) where such produce has been cut or gathered,—on the threshing floor or place for 

treading out grain or the like, or fodder-stack, or in such other place such produce 

is kept or deposited, 

and another copy on the outer door or on some other conspicuous part of the house in 

which the defaulter ordinarily resides, or with the leave of the Recovery Officer, on the 

outer  door  or  on  some  other  conspicuous  part  of  the  house  in  which  he  carries  on 

business or personally works for gain, or in which he is known to have last resided or 

carried on business or personally worked for gain.  

(2) The produce shall, thereupon, be deemed to have passed into the possession of the 

Recovery Officer.  

 

 

Provisions as to agricultural produce under attachment. 

38. (1) Where agricultural produce is attached, the Recovery Officer shall make such 

arrangements for the custody, watching, tending, cutting and gathering thereof 

 
Page | 169  

 
 

 

as he may deem sufficient; and he shall have power to defray the cost of such 

arrangements. 

(2) Subject to such conditions as may be imposed by the Recovery Officer in this behalf, 

either in the order of attachment or in any subsequent order, the defaulter may tend, 

cut,  gather  and  store  the  produce  and  do  any  other  act  necessary  for  maturing  or 

preserving  it;  and,  if  the  defaulter  fails  to  do  all  or  any  of  such  acts,  any  person 

appointed by the Recovery Officer in this behalf may, subject to like conditions, do all 

or any of such acts, and the costs incurred by such person shall be recoverable from the 

defaulter as if they were included in the certificate. 

(3) Agricultural produce attached as a growing crop shall not be deemed to have ceased 

to be under attachment or to require reattachment merely because it has been severed 

from the soil. 

(4)  Where  an  order  for  the  attachment  of  a  growing  crop  has  been  made  at  a 

considerable time before the crop is likely to be fit to be cut or gathered, the Recovery 

Officer may suspend the execution of the order for such time as he thinks fit, and may, 

in his discretion, make a further order prohibiting the removal of the crop pending the 

execution of the order of attachment. 

(5) A growing crop which from its nature does not admit of being stored shall not be 

attached  under  this  regulation  at  any  time  less  than  twenty  days  before  the  time  at 

which it is likely to be fit to be cut or gathered. 

 

Debts, shares, etc. 

39. (1) In the case of— 

(a) a debt not secured by a negotiable instrument, 

(b) securities, or 

(c)  other  movable  property  not  in  the  possession  of  the  defaulter  except  property 

deposited in, or in the custody of, any court, 

the attachment shall be made by a written order prohibiting,— 

(i) in the case of the debt—the creditor from recovering the debt and the debtor from 

making payment thereof until the further order of the Recovery Officer; 

 
Page | 170  

 
 

 

(ii) in the case of securities, the person in whose name such security may be standing, 

from  transferring  the  same  or  receiving  any  dividend  or  benefit  or  interest 

thereon; 

(iii)  in the case  of the other movable property (except as  aforesaid)—the person in 

possession of the same from giving it over to the defaulter. 

(2) A copy of such order shall be affixed on some conspicuous part of the office of the 

Recovery Officer, and another copy shall be sent, in the case of the debt, to the debtor, 

in  the  case  of  the  securities,  to  the  proper  officer  of  the  corporation  or  other  body 

corporate, and in the case of the other movable property (except as aforesaid), to the 

person in possession of the same.  

(3) A debtor prohibited under clause (i) of sub-regulation (1) may pay the amount of his 

debt to the Recovery Officer, and such payment shall discharge him as effectually as 

payment to the party entitled to receive the same.  

 

Recovery of monies due to the defaulter 

40. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, the Recovery Officer may 

recover the amount due to the defaulter by mode of recovery specified in sub-

regulation 3 of regulation 11.  

 

Attachment of decree. 

41. (1) The attachment of a decree of a civil court for the payment of money or for 

sale in enforcement of a mortgage or charge shall be made to the civil court by a 

notice requesting the civil court to stay the execution of the decree unless and 

until— 

(i) the Recovery Officer cancels the notice, or 

(ii) the Recovery Officer or the defaulter applies to the court receiving such notice to 

execute the decree. 

(2) Where a civil court receives an application under clause (ii) of sub-regulation (1), it 

shall,  on  the  application  of  the Recovery  Officer  or  the  defaulter  and  subject  to  the 

 
Page | 171  

 
 

 

provisions  of  the  Code  of  Civil  Procedure,  1908  (5  of  1908),  proceed  to  execute  the 

attached decree and apply the net proceeds in satisfaction of the certificate. 

(3) The Recovery Officer shall be deemed to be the representative of the holder of the 

attached  decree,  and  to  be  entitled  to  execute  such  attached  decree  in  any  manner 

lawful for the holder thereof. 

 

Share in movable property. 

42. Where  the  property  to  be  attached  consists  of  the  share  or  interest  of  the 

defaulter in a movable property belonging to him and another as co-owners, the 

attachment  shall  be  made  by  a  notice  to  the  defaulter  prohibiting  him  from 

transferring the share or interest or charging it in any way.  

 

Salary of government servants. 

43. Attachment of the salary or allowances of servants of the Government or a local 

authority may be made in the manner provided by rule 48 of Order 21 of the First 

Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), and the provisions of 

the  said  rule  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  this  regulation,  apply  subject  to  such 

modifications as may be necessary.  

 

Attachment of negotiable instrument. 

44. Where the property is a negotiable instrument not deposited in a court or in the 

custody of a public officer, the attachment shall be made by actual seizure, and 

the instrument shall be brought before the Recovery Officer and held subject to 

his orders.  

 

Attachment of property in custody of court or public officer. 

45. Where  the  property  to  be  attached  is  in  the  custody  of  any  court  or  a  public 

officer,  the  attachment  shall  be  made  by  a  notice  to  such  court  or  officer, 

requesting that such property, and any interest or dividend becoming payable 

 
Page | 172  

 
 

 

thereon,  may be held  subject  to  the further  orders  of  the  Recovery  Officer  by 

whom the notice is issued: 

Provided that where such property is in the custody of a court, any question of title or 

priority  arising  between  the Recovery  Officer  and  any  other  person,  not  being  the 

defaulter,  claiming  to  be  interested  in  such  property  by  virtue  of  any  assignment, 

attachment or otherwise, shall be determined by such court.  

 

Attachment of partnership property. 

46. (1) Where the property to be attached  consists of an interest of  the defaulter, 

being a partner, in the partnership property, the Recovery Officer may make an 

order charging the share of such partner in the partnership property and profits 

with payment of the amount due under the certificate, and may, by the same or 

subsequent order, appoint a receiver of the share of such partner in the profits, 

whether already declared or accruing and of any other money which may become 

due to him in respect of the partnership, and direct accounts and inquiries and 

make  an  order  for  the  sale  of  such  interest  or  such  other  order  as  the 

circumstances of the case may require. 

(2) The other persons shall be at liberty at any time to redeem the interest charged or, 

in the case of a sale being directed, to purchase the same. 

 

Inventory. 

47. In the case of attachment of movable property by actual seizure, the officer shall, 

after  attachment  of  the  property,  prepare  an  inventory  of  all  the  property 

attached, specifying in it the place where it is lodged or kept, and shall forward 

the same to the Recovery Officer and a copy of the inventory shall be delivered 

by the Officer to the defaulter. 

 

Attachment not to be excessive. 

 
Page | 173  

 
 

 

48. The attachment by seizure shall not be excessive and the property so attached 

shall  be  as  nearly  as  possible  proportionate  to  the  amount  specified  in  the 

warrant. 

Power to break open doors, etc. 

49. The Officer may break open any inner or outer door or window of any building 

and enter any building in order to seize any movable property, if the officer has 

reasonable  grounds  to  believe  that  such  building  contains  movable  property 

liable to seizure under the warrant and the Officer has notified his authority and 

intention of breaking open if admission is not given:  

Provided the Officer shall give all reasonable opportunity to women to withdraw.  

 

Custody at place of attachment. 

50. (1) Where the property attached is of such a nature that its removal from the 

place of attachment is impracticable or its removal involves expenditure out of 

proportion  to  the  value  of  the  property,  the  Officer  attaching  such  property 

(hereinafter  referred  to  as  ‘‘attaching  officer’’)  shall,  subject  to  any  directions 

which  the  Recovery  Officer  may  issue  in  this  behalf,  arrange  for  the  proper 

maintenance and custody of the property at the place of attachment.  

(2) The attaching officer shall forthwith send a report of having done so to the Recovery 

Officer. 

(3)  On  receipt  of  a  report  from  the  attaching  officer  under  sub-regulation  (1),  the 

Recovery Officer may either order the removal of the property to a place which he shall 

specify or sanction its maintenance and custody at the place of attachment under such 

conditions as he may think fit. 

 

Removal and custody of property in other cases. 

51. Where the attached property is not kept at the place of attachment, it shall be 

kept in the custody of an officer (hereinafter referred to as the "custody officer") 

subordinate to the Recovery Officer and authorised by the Recovery Officer for 

 

 
Page | 174  

 
 

 

this purpose. The custody officer may remove the property to the office of the 

Recovery Officer for custody under his own supervision or, with the approval of 

the Recovery Officer, may make such arrangements as may be convenient and 

economical  for  its  safe  custody  with  any  other  fit  person  under  his  own 

supervision and the Recovery Officer may fix the remuneration to be allowed to 

such person. 

Property may be handed over to the defaulter. 

52. Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  regulation  50  or  regulation  51,  the 

attaching officer or the custody officer may, with the previous approval of the 

Recovery  Officer,  entrust,  subject  to  his  right  of  supervision,  the  attached 

property to the defaulter on his executing a bond, which may be so varied as the 

circumstances of each case may require.  

Explanation.—Where  the  Recovery  Officer  proceeds  to  recover  any  dues  from  the 

defaulter by attachment and sale of, or by appointing a receiver for the management of, 

any movable or immovable property which is held by or stands in the name of, any of 

the persons referred to in the Explanation to sub-section (1) of section 28A of the Act 

or section 23 JB of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or section 19-IB of 

the  Depositories  Act,  1996  and  which  is  included  in  the  defaulter's  movable  or 

immovable property by virtue of that Explanation, the reference to "defaulter" in these 

regulations,  as  may  be  applicable,  shall,  in  relation  to  such  movable  or  immovable 

property, be construed as a reference to the person referred to in the said Explanation. 

 

Custody of attached cash, securities, etc. 

53. (1) If  the property attached  consists of  cash,  it shall be deposited  in  the bank 

account of the Board. 

(2)  If  the  property  attached  consists  of  government  or  other  securities,  bullion, 

jewellery or other valuables, the attaching officer shall seize such property and entrust 

the properties to the Recovery Officer along with an inventory thereof.  

 

 

 
Page | 175  

 
 

 

Claim  of  any  person  other  than  the  defaulter  to  the  property  under 

attachment. 

54. When the property remains at the place where it is attached in the custody of the 

attaching officer, and any person other than the defaulter claims the same, or 

any part thereof, the officer shall nevertheless remain in possession and  shall 

direct the claimant to prefer his claim before the Recovery Officer. 

 

Return of property on cancellation or withdrawal of attachment. 

55. (1)  If  in  consequence  of  withdrawal  or  cancellation  of  the  attachment,  the 

defaulter becomes entitled to receive back the movable property attached, the 

possession  thereof  shall  be  given  to  him  on  payment  of  costs,  charges  and 

expenses due, if any, in respect of the execution of the certificate against such 

property. 

(2) For the purpose of giving possession under sub-regulation (1), the attaching officer 

shall inform the defaulter that the property is at his disposal.  

(3) In the absence of any person to take charge of the property the officer may, if the 

property has been moved from the premises in which it was seized, replace it where it 

was found at the time of seizure.  

 

Property may be sold if costs, etc. not paid. 

56. In default of the payment of costs, charges and expenses, the movable property 

or such portion thereof as may be necessary shall be sold by auction and after 

defraying  the  expenses  of  such  sale  and  the  costs,  charges  and  expenses 

aforesaid, the balance, if any, of the movables so party as has not been sold shall 

be handed over to the defaulter. 

 

Feeding and tending of livestock under attachment. 

57. Whenever livestock is kept at the place where it has been attached, the defaulter 

shall  be  at  liberty  to  undertake  the  due  feeding  and  tending  of  it,  under  the 

supervision of the attaching officer. 

 
Page | 176  

 
 

 

Removal of livestock. 

58. In the event of the defaulter failing to feed attached livestock, the livestock may 

be  placed  in  the  custody  of  the  custody  officer  or  may  be  placed  in  a  pound 

maintained by the Government or a local authority. 

 

Custody of livestock in pound. 

59. If there be any such pound near the office of the Recovery Officer, the attaching 

officer  or  the  custody  officer  may  place  in  it  such  attached  livestock  as  can 

properly be kept therein in which case the pound-keeper shall be responsible for 

the  livestock  and  shall  receive  the  same  rates  for  accommodation  and 

maintenance thereof as are payable in respect of impounded cattle of the same 

description.  

 

Custody with a person other than custody officer. 

60. Notwithstanding anything contained in regulation 58, the custody officer may, 

with the approval of the Recovery Officer, entrust the attached livestock to any 

other person under his own supervision and the Recovery Officer may fix the 

remuneration to be allowed to such person after taking into account the local 

circumstances  and  the  charges  which  such  person  may  have  to  incur  for  the 

maintenance and custody of such livestock. 

 

Expenses of custody, maintenance, etc. 

61. The  expenses  of  maintenance  and  custody  of  movable  property  including  the 

remuneration  payable  to  the  person  concerned  under  this  Chapter  shall  be 

deemed to be costs of attachment or sale. 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page | 177  

 
 

 

Sale. 

PART II - SALE 

62. The Recovery Officer may direct that any movable property attached under this 

regulation or such portion thereof as may seem necessary to satisfy the certificate 

shall be sold. 

 

Issue of proclamation. 

63. When  any  sale  of  movable  property  is  ordered  by  the  Recovery  Officer,  the 

Recovery Officer shall issue a proclamation, in the language of the district, of the 

intended  sale,  specifying  the  time  and  place  of  sale  and  whether  the  sale  is 

subject to confirmation or not. 

 

Proclamation how made. 

64. (1) Such proclamation shall be made by publication in newspapers circulating in 

the locality, notice in the Office of the Registering Authority, publication through 

digital/electronic  modes  like  publication  on  the  website  of  the  Board, 

Registering Authority, etc.— 

(a) in the case of property attached by actual seizure— 

(i) in the locality where the property was seized; and 

(ii) at such other places as the Recovery Officer may direct; 

(b) in the case of property attached otherwise than by actual seizure, in such places, if 

any, as the Recovery Officer may direct. 

(2) A copy of the proclamation shall also be affixed in a conspicuous part of the office 

of the Recovery Officer. 

 

Sale after fifteen days. 

65. Except where the property is subject to speedy and natural decay or when the 

expense of keeping it in custody is likely to exceed its value, no sale of movable 

property  under  these  regulations  shall,  without  the  consent  in  writing  of  the 

 

 
Page | 178  

 
 

 

defaulter, take place until after the expiry of at least fifteen days calculated from 

the date on which a copy of the sale proclamation was affixed in the office of the 

Recovery Officer. 

Sale of agricultural produce. 

66. (1) Where the property to be sold is agricultural produce, the sale shall be held,— 

(a) if such produce is a growing crop—on or near the land on which such crop has 

grown, or 

(b) if such produce has been cut or gathered—at or near the threshing floor or place 

for treading out grain or the like, or fodder-stack, on or in which it is deposited: 

Provided that the Recovery Officer may direct the sale to be held at the nearest place of 

public  resort,  if  he  is  of  opinion  that  the  produce  is  thereby  likely  to  sell  to  greater 

advantage. 

(2) Where, on the produce being put up for sale,— 

(a) a fair price, in the estimation of the person holding the sale, is not offered for it, 

and 

(b) the owner of the produce, or a person authorised to act on his behalf, applies to 

have the sale postponed till the next day or, if a market is held at the place of sale, 

the next market day, 

the sale shall be postponed accordingly, and shall be then completed, whatever price 

may be offered for the produce. 

 

Special provisions relating to growing crops. 

67. (1) Where the property to be sold is a growing crop and the crop from its nature 

admits of being stored but has not yet been stored, the day of the sale shall be so 

fixed as to admit of the crop being made ready for storing before the arrival of 

such day, and the sale shall not be held until the crop has been cut or gathered 

and is ready for storing. 

(2) Where the crop from its nature does not admit of being stored or can be sold to a 

greater advantage in an unripe stage, it may be sold before it is cut and gathered, and 

 

 
Page | 179  

 
 

 

the purchaser shall be entitled to enter on the land, and to do all that is necessary for 

the purpose of tending or cutting or gathering the crop.  

 

Sale to be by auction. 

68. The property shall be sold by public auction in one or more lots as the officer 

may consider appropriate, and if the amount to be realised by sale is satisfied by 

the sale of a portion of the property, the sale shall be immediately stopped with 

respect to the remainder of the lots.  

 

Sale by public auction. 

69. (1) Where movable property is sold by public auction, the price of each lot shall 

be paid at the time of sale or as soon after as the officer holding the sale directs 

and in default of payment, the property shall forthwith be resold. 

(2)  On  payment  of  the  purchase-money,  the  officer  holding  the  sale  shall  grant  a 

certificate  specifying  the  property  purchased,  the  price  paid  and  the  name  of  the 

purchaser, and the sale shall become absolute. 

(3) Where the movable property to be sold is a share in goods belonging to the defaulter 

and a co-owner, and two or more persons, of whom one is such co-owner, respectively 

bid the same sum for such property or for any lot, the bidding shall be deemed to be the 

bidding of the co-owner. 

 

Irregularity not to vitiate sale. 

70. No irregularity in publishing or conducting the sale of movable property shall 

vitiate the sale.  

 

Negotiable instruments and securities. 

71. Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, where the property to 

be  sold  is  a  negotiable  instrument  or  a  security,  the  Recovery  Officer  may, 

instead of directing the sale to be made by public auction, authorise the sale of 

such instrument or security through a stock broker or other intermediary. 

 
Page | 180  

 
 

 

Delivery of movable property, debts and shares. 

72. (1) Where the property sold is movable property of which actual seizure has been 

made, it shall be delivered to the purchaser. 

(2) Where the property sold is movable property in the possession of some person other 

than the defaulter, the delivery thereof to the purchaser shall be made by giving notice 

to the person in possession prohibiting him from delivering possession of the property 

to  any  person  except  the  purchaser  and  requiring  him  to  deliver  possession  of  the 

property to the purchaser within the time stipulated by the Recovery Officer. 

(3) Where such person in possession of the property fails without reasonable cause to 

deliver possession of the property to the purchaser within the time stipulated by the 

Recovery Officer, or within such further time as may be allowed by him, the Recovery 

Officer shall  cause the property to be seized  and  delivered to the  purchaser  and the 

provisions of these regulations shall, as far as may be, apply to such seizure. 

(4) Where  the  property  sold  is  a  debt  not  secured  by  a  negotiable  instrument,  the 

delivery  thereof  to  the  purchaser  shall  be  made  by  a  written  order  of  the  Recovery 

Officer prohibiting the creditor from receiving the debt or any interest thereon and the 

debtor from making payment thereof to any person except the purchaser and requiring 

the debtor to make payment thereof to the purchaser within the time stipulated by the 

Recovery Officer. 

(5) Where  the  debtor  fails  to  make  such  payment  to  the  purchaser  within  the  time 

stipulated by the Recovery Officer, or within such further time as may be allowed by 

him, the Recovery Officer may take further proceedings to recover the amount due from 

the debtor as if the debtor were a defaulter in respect of whom the Recovery Officer had 

drawn up a certificate for the recovery of the payment.  

(6) Where the property sold is a security, the delivery thereof to the purchaser may be 

made by a written order of the Recovery Officer prohibiting the person in whose name 

the securities may be standing, from making any transfer of the share to any person 

except  the  purchaser,  or  receiving  payment  of  any  dividend  or  interest  thereon  and 

requiring him to deliver the security certificate or other document of title along with 

 

 
Page | 181  

 
 

 

the instrument of transfer duly completed by him to the Recovery Officer within the 

time  stipulated  by  the  Recovery  Officer  and  prohibiting  the  manager,  secretary,  or 

other proper officer of the corporation from permitting any such transfer or making 

any such payment to any person except the purchaser: 

Provided that if the securities are held in a depository, delivery of securities shall be 

effected  through  transfer  from  such  dematerialised  account,  in  accordance  with  the 

provisions of the Depositories Act, 1996 and the rules, regulations or bye-laws made 

thereunder, to the credit of the purchaser.  

(7) Where the person in whose name the security may be standing, fails to deliver the 

share  certificate  or  other  document  of  title  to  the  Recovery  Officer  within  the  time 

stipulated by him, or within such further time as may be allowed by him, the Recovery 

Officer may take steps to obtain a duplicate of the share certificate or other document 

of title as if the share certificate or other document of title had been lost or destroyed: 

Provided  that  if  securities  are  held  in  a  depository,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall  issue 

appropriate directions to such depository for effecting transfer to the purchaser.  

 

Transfer of negotiable instruments and shares. 

73. (1) Where the execution of a document or the endorsement of the party in whose 

name a negotiable instrument or a security is standing is required  to transfer 

such negotiable instrument or security to a person who has purchased it under a 

sale under these regulation, the Recovery Officer may execute such document or 

make  such  endorsement  as  may  be  necessary  and  such  execution  or 

endorsement shall have the same effect as an execution or endorsement by the 

party.  

(2)  The  Recovery  Officer  may  cause  the  document  to  be  executed  on  proper  stamp 

paper and to be registered if its registration is required by any law for the time being in 

force  and  the  expenses  of  such  execution  and  registration  shall  be  borne  by  the 

purchaser.  

(3) Until the transfer of such negotiable instrument or share, the Recovery Officer may, 

by order, appoint some person to receive any interest or dividend due thereon and to 

 
Page | 182  

 
 

sign a receipt for the same; and any receipt so signed shall be as valid and effectual for 

all purposes as if the same had been signed by the party himself. 

(4)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  hereinabove,  in  case  of  shares  or  other 

securities held in an electronic form, the Recovery Officer may, by an order, direct any 

depository or custodian or any other person in whose custody the shares or securities 

are held, to transfer such shares or securities to the purchaser. 

 

Vesting order in case of other property. 

74. In the case of any movable property not hereinbefore provided for, the Recovery 

Officer  may  make  an  order  vesting  such  property  in  the  purchaser  or  as  the 

purchaser may direct; and such property shall vest accordingly. 

 

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER IV 

 

ATTACHMENT AND SALE OF IMMOVABLE PROPERTY 

 

PART I – ATTACHMENT 

Attachment. 

75. Attachment of the immovable property of the defaulter shall be made by an order 

prohibiting the defaulter from transferring or charging the property in any way 

and  prohibiting  all  persons  from  taking  any  benefit  under  such  transfer  or 

charge. 

 

Service of notice of attachment. 

76. A copy of the order of attachment shall be served on the defaulter. 

 

 

 
Page | 183  

 
 

 

Proclamation of attachment. 

77. The  order  of  attachment  shall  be  proclaimed  by  publication  in  newspapers 

circulating in the locality, publication on website of the Board etc., and a copy of 

the order shall be affixed on a conspicuous part of the property or such other 

place as may be specified by the Recovery Officer and on the notice board of the 

office of the Recovery Officer. 

 

Attachment to relate back from the date of service of notice. 

78. Where  any  immovable  property  is  attached  under  this  regulation,  the 

attachment shall relate back to, and take effect from, the date on which the notice 

to  pay  the  dues,  was  issued  under  these  regulations  and  served  upon  the 

defaulter. 

 

PART II – SALE 

 

Sale and proclamation of sale. 

79. (1) The Recovery Officer may direct that any immovable property which has been 

attached, or such portion thereof as may seem necessary to satisfy the certificate, 

shall be sold.  

(2) Where  any  immovable  property  is ordered  to  be  sold,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall 

cause a proclamation of the intended sale to be made in the language of the district. 

 

Contents of proclamation. 

80. A proclamation of sale of immovable property shall be drawn up after notice to 

the defaulter, and shall state the time and place of sale, and shall specify, as fairly 

and accurately as possible,— 

(a) the property to be sold; 

(b) the revenue, if any, assessed upon the property or any part thereof; 

(c) the amount for the recovery of which the sale is ordered;  

(d) the reserve price, if any, below which the property may not be sold; and 

 
Page | 184  

 
 

(e) any other thing which the Recovery Officer considers it material for a purchaser to 

know, in order to judge the nature and value of the property. 

 

Mode of making proclamation. 

81. (1)  Every  proclamation  for  the  sale  of  immovable  property  shall  be  made  by 

publication in newspapers circulating in the locality, publication on website of 

the Board etc. and a copy of the proclamation shall be affixed on a conspicuous 

part  of  the  property  or  such  other  place  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Recovery 

Officer and also upon a conspicuous part of the office of the Recovery Officer. 

(2) Where the Recovery Officer so directs, such proclamation shall also be published in 

the Official Gazette and the cost of such publication shall be deemed to be costs of the 

sale. 

(3) Where the property is divided into lots for the purpose of being sold separately, it 

shall  not  be  necessary  to  make  a  separate  proclamation  for  each  lot,  unless  proper 

notice of the sale cannot, in the opinion of the Recovery Officer, otherwise be given. 

 

Time of sale. 

82. No sale of immovable property under this regulation shall, without the consent 

in writing of the defaulter, take place until after the expiry of at least thirty days 

calculated from the date on which a copy of the proclamation of sale has been 

affixed on the property or in the office of the Recovery Officer, whichever is later. 

 

Sale to be by auction. 

83. The sale shall be by public auction, which may be conducted through electronic 

auction,  to  the  highest  bidder  and  shall  be  subject  to  confirmation  by  the 

Recovery Officer: 

Provided that no sale under this regulation shall be made if the amount bid by 

the highest bidder is less than the reserve price, if any, specified.  

 

 

 

 
Page | 185  

 
 

Deposit of earnest money.  

84. (1) The bids for purchase of any property shall be accompanied with payment of 

earnest money calculated at: 

(a) ten per cent of the reserve price, where the reserve price is up to rupees ten crore, 

subject to a minimum of rupees fifty thousand; or 

(b) rupees ten lakhs plus five per cent on the remaining amount of reserve price, 

where the reserve price is above rupees ten crore. 

(2) The earnest money so calculated shall be rounded to the nearest rupees thousand. 

 

Deposit by purchaser and resale in default. 

85. (1) On every sale of immovable property, the person declared to be the purchaser 

shall pay, immediately after such declaration, a deposit of twenty-five per cent 

on the amount of purchase money, including the earnest money, to the officer 

conducting the sale; and, in default of such deposit, the property shall forthwith 

be resold.  

(2) The full amount of purchase money payable shall be paid by the purchaser to the 

Recovery Officer on or before the fifteenth day from the date of the sale of the property. 

(3) The period of fifteen days under sub-regulation (2) may be extended by a maximum 

period of three months, subject to the purchaser making a request for such extension 

along with an undertaking to pay the remaining sale price together with interest thereon 

at the rate of fifteen per cent per annum for the period so extended.  

(4)  The  application  for  extension  of  time  for  payment  shall  be  accompanied  by  an 

unconditional  bank  guarantee  for  the  remaining  outstanding  sale  price  and  interest 

thereon at the rate mentioned hereinabove for a period of three months. 

(5) The advertisement regarding the auction for sale of properties shall appropriately 

mention that extension to pay the consideration may be allowed subject to compliance 

with sub-regulations (3) and (4).  

 

 

 

 

 
Page | 186  

 
 

 

Procedure in default of payment. 

86. (1)  Upon  default  of  payment  within  the  period  mentioned  in  the  preceding 

regulation, the deposit may, if the Recovery Officer thinks fit, after defraying the 

expenses  of  the  sale,  be  forfeited,  and  the  property  shall  be  resold,  and  the 

defaulting purchaser shall forfeit all claims to the property or to any part of the 

sum for which it may subsequently be sold.  

(2)  Without  prejudice  to  sub-regulation  (1),  if  the  highest  bidder  fails  to  pay  the 

purchase price in accordance with the terms of sale, the property may be offered to the 

next highest bidder at a price equal to the bid made by the highest bidder.  

 

Refund of earnest money. 

87. Earnest  money  deposited  by  unsuccessful  bidders  shall  be  refunded  without 

interest within sixty days from the date of confirmation of sale. 

 

Forfeiture of earnest money or other payments. 

88. Earnest money or any other part of the purchase price paid by a bidder shall be 

forfeited on the following circumstances: 

(a) the bidder not participating in the auction after successfully submitting the 

bid, or  

(b)  on  default  in  payment  of  twenty-five  per  cent  of  the  purchase  price, 

including the earnest money paid, immediately after the auction, or  

(c) on default in payment of remaining seventy-five per cent within fifteen days 

of the sale: 

Provided that the earnest money shall not be forfeited if time for making payment is 

extended in accordance with sub-regulation (3) of regulation 85.  

 

Application to set aside sale of immovable property on deposit. 

89. (1) Where immovable property has been sold in execution of  a certificate, the 

defaulter, or any person whose interests are affected by the sale, may, at any time 

 
Page | 187  

 
 

within thirty days from the date of the sale, apply to the Recovery Officer to set 

aside the sale, on his depositing — 

 (a) the amount specified in the proclamation of sale as that for the recovery of which 

the sale was ordered, with interest thereon at the rate of one and one-fourth per 

cent  for  every  month  or  part  of  a  month,  calculated  from  the  date  of  the 

proclamation of sale to the date when the deposit is made; and 

(b)  for  payment  to  the  purchaser,  as  penalty,  a  sum  equal  to  five  per  cent  of  the 

purchase money. 

(2) Where a person makes an application under regulation 90 for setting aside the sale 

of  his  immovable  property,  he  shall  not,  unless  he  withdraws  that  application,  be 

entitled to make or prosecute an application under this regulation. 

 

Application  to  set  aside  sale  of  immovable  property  on  ground  of  non-

service of notice or irregularity. 

90. Where  immovable  property  has  been  sold  in  execution  of  a  certificate, the 

defaulter, or any person whose interests are affected by the sale, may, at any time 

within thirty days from the date of the sale, apply to the Recovery Officer to set 

aside  the  sale  of  the  immovable  property  on  the  ground  that  notice  was  not 

served on the defaulter to pay the arrears as required by this regulation or on the 

ground of a material irregularity in publishing or conducting the sale: 

Provided that— 

(a) no sale shall be set aside on any such ground unless the Recovery Officer is satisfied 

that the applicant has sustained substantial injury by reason of the non-service or 

irregularity; and 

(b) an application made by a defaulter under this regulation shall be disallowed unless 

the applicant deposits the amount recoverable from him in the execution of the 

certificate. 

 

 

 

 

 
Page | 188  

 
 

Setting aside sale where defaulter has no saleable interest. 

91. At  any  time  within  thirty  days  of  the  sale,  the  purchaser  may  apply  to  the 

Recovery Officer to set aside the sale on the ground that the defaulter had no 

saleable interest in the property sold. 

 

Confirmation of sale. 

92. (1)  Where  no  application  is  made  for  setting  aside  the  sale  under  these 

regulations or where such an application is made and disallowed by the Recovery 

Officer, the Recovery Officer shall (if the full amount of the purchase money has 

been  paid)  make  an  order  confirming  the  sale,  and,  thereupon,  the  sale  shall 

become absolute. 

(2)  Where  such  application  is  made  and  allowed,  and  where,  in  the  case  of  an 

application made to set aside the sale on deposit of the amount and penalty and charges, 

the deposit is made within thirty days from the date of the sale, the Recovery Officer 

shall make an order setting aside the sale: 

Provided that no order shall be made unless notice of the application has been given to 

the persons affected thereby.  

 

Return of purchase money in certain cases. 

93. Where a sale of immovable property is set aside, any money paid or deposited by 

the  purchaser  on  account  of  the  purchase,  together  with  the  penalty,  if  any, 

deposited  for  payment  to  the  purchaser,  and  such  interest  as  the  Recovery 

Officer may allow, shall be paid to the purchaser. 

 

Sale certificate. 

94. (1)  Where  a  sale  of  immovable  property  has  become  absolute,  the  Recovery 

Officer shall grant a certificate of sale specifying the property sold, and the name 

of the person who at the time of sale is declared to be the purchaser. 

(2) Such sale certificate shall state the date on which the sale became absolute. 

 

 

 
Page | 189  

 
 

 

Registration of sale. 

95. (1)  Every  Recovery  Officer  granting  a  certificate  of  sale  to  the  purchaser  of 

immovable  property  sold  under  these  regulations  shall  send  a  copy  of  such 

certificate to the registering officer concerned under the Indian Registration Act, 

1908 (16 of 1908), within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the whole or any 

part of the immovable property comprised in the certificate is situated.  

(2)  The  Recovery  Officer  or  any  officer  acting  under  the  direction  of  the  Recovery 

Officer shall be exempted from personal appearance at the registration office. 

 

Postponement  of  sale  to  enable  defaulter  to  raise  amount  due  under 

certificate. 

96. (1)  Where  an  order  for  the  sale  of  immovable  property has  been  made,  if  the 

defaulter can satisfy the Recovery Officer that there is reason to believe that the 

amount of the certificate may be raised by the mortgage or lease or private sale 

of such property, or some part thereof, or of any other immovable property of 

the defaulter, the Recovery Officer may, on his application, postpone the sale of 

the property comprised in the order for sale, on such terms, and for such period 

as he thinks proper, to enable the defaulter to raise the amount.  

(2)  In  such  case,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall  grant  a  certificate  to  the  defaulter, 

authorizing  him,  within  a  period  to  be  mentioned  therein,  and  notwithstanding 

anything contained in this regulation, to make the proposed mortgage, lease or sale: 

Provided that  all  moneys  payable  under  such  mortgage,  lease  or  sale  shall  be 

paid, not to the defaulter, but to the Recovery Officer:  

Provided  further  that  no  mortgage,  lease  or  sale  under  this  regulation  shall 

become absolute until it has been confirmed by the Recovery Officer. 

 

Fresh proclamation before re-sale. 

97. Every  resale  of  immovable  property,  in  default  of  payment  of  the  purchase 

money within the period allowed for such payment, shall be made after the issue 

 
Page | 190  

 
 

 

of a fresh proclamation in the manner and for the period hereinbefore provided 

for the sale.  

  

Purchase by Government. 

98. When an immovable property is put up for sale for recovery of amounts due and 

if the property remains unsold, the Board may, after giving opportunity to the 

defaulter to furnish the amounts due under the certificate, offer the same to the 

Central Government or any State Government, who may submit a bid not lower 

than the reserve price and purchase the said property:  

Provided that, - 

i. 

offer to the Central or State Government under this regulation shall be made only 

in case where two earlier auctions in respect of the said immoveable property 

have been unsuccessful; 

ii. 

the Board may afford such time as may be deemed fit to such Central or State 

Government to convey its willingness to purchase and to make payment of the 

consideration; and 

iii.  where the property is put up for sale for recovery of any penalty due or other 

amount  payable  to  the  Central  Government  and  the  reserve  price  does  not 

exceed the amount due, the Central Government may acquire the property by 

extinguishing the liability of the defaulter equal to the reserve price.  

 

Bid of co-sharer to have preference. 

99. Where the property sold is a share of undivided immovable property, and two or 

more persons, of  whom one is a  co-sharer,  respectively bid the same sum for 

such  property  or  for  any  lot, the  bid  shall  be  deemed  to  be the  bid  of  the  co-

sharer. 

 

Delivery of immovable property in occupancy of defaulter. 

100. 

(1)  Where  the  immovable  property  sold  is  in  the  occupancy  of  the 

defaulter or of some person on his behalf or of some person claiming under a 

 
Page | 191  

 
 

 

title created by the defaulter  subsequently to the attachment of such property 

and a certificate of sale in respect thereof has been granted under regulation 94, 

the Recovery Officer shall, on the application of the purchaser, order delivery to 

be  made  by  putting  such  purchaser  or  any  person  whom  the  purchaser  may 

appoint  to  receive  delivery  on  his  behalf  in  possession  of  the  property,  and  if 

need be, by removing any person who refuses to vacate the same. 

(2) For the purposes of sub-regulation (1), if the person in possession does not afford 

free access, the Recovery Officer may, after giving reasonable warning and facility to any 

woman not appearing in public according to the customs of the country to withdraw, 

remove or open any lock or bolt or break open any door or do any other act necessary 

for putting the purchaser, or any person whom the purchaser may appoint to receive 

delivery on his behalf, in possession. 

 

Delivery of immovable property in occupancy of tenant.  

101. 

Where  the immovable  property  sold  is  in  the  occupancy  of  a  tenant  or 

other  person  entitled  to  occupy  the  same  and  a  certificate  of  sale  in  respect 

thereof has been granted under regulation 94, the Recovery Officer shall, on the 

application of the purchaser, order delivery to be made by affixing a copy of the 

certificate of sale in some conspicuous place on the property or such other place 

as may be deemed appropriate by the Recovery Officer, and proclaiming to the 

occupant by any customary mode, at some convenient place that the interest of 

the defaulter has been transferred to the purchaser. 

 

Resistance or obstruction to possession of immovable property. 

102. 

(1)  Where  the  purchaser  of  immovable  property  sold  in  execution  of  a 

certificate is resisted or obstructed by any person in obtaining possession of the 

property, he may make an application to  the Recovery Officer complaining of 

such resistance or obstruction within thirty days of the date of such resistance or 

obstruction. 

 
Page | 192  

 
 

 

(2) The Recovery Officer shall fix a day for investigating the matter and shall summon 

the party against whom the application is made to appear and answer the same. 

 

Resistance or obstruction by defaulter. 

103. 

Where the Recovery Officer is satisfied that the resistance or obstruction 

was occasioned without any just cause by the defaulter or by some other person 

at his instigation, he shall direct that the applicant be put into possession of the 

property,  and  where  the  applicant  is  still  resisted  or  obstructed  in  obtaining 

possession, the Recovery Officer may also, at the instance of the applicant, take 

steps  to  put  the  applicant  into  possession  of  the  property  by  removing  the 

defaulter or any person acting at his instigation. 

 

Resistance or obstruction by bona fide claimant. 

104. 

Where the Recovery Officer is satisfied that the resistance or obstruction 

was occasioned by any person (other than the defaulter) claiming in good faith 

to be in possession of the property on his own account or on account of some 

person  other  than  the  defaulter,  the  Recovery  Officer  shall  make  an  order 

dismissing the application. 

 

Dispossession by purchaser. 

105. 

(1)  Where  any  person  other  than  the  defaulter  is  dispossessed  of 

immovable property sold in execution of a certificate by the purchaser thereof, 

he  may  make  an  application  to  the  Recovery  Officer  complaining  of  such 

dispossession within thirty days of such dispossession. 

(2) The Recovery Officer shall fix a day for investigating the matter and shall summon 

the party against whom the application is made to appear and answer the same. 

 

Bona fide claimant to be restored to possession. 

106. 

Where  the  Recovery  Officer  is  satisfied  that  the  applicant  was  in 

possession  of  the  property  on  his own  account  or  on  account  of  some person 

 
Page | 193  

 
 

 

other than the defaulter, he shall direct that the applicant be put into possession 

of the property. 

Regulations not applicable to transferee pendente lite. 

107. 

Nothing  in  the  foregoing  regulations  shall  apply  to  resistance  or 

obstruction by a person to whom the defaulter has transferred the property after 

the service of  a notice  under  regulation  6 or  to the  dispossession  of  any  such 

person. 

 

 

CHAPTER V 

 

APPOINTMENT OF A RECEIVER 

Appointment of receiver for business. 

108. 

(1) Where the property of a defaulter consists of a business, the Recovery 

Officer may attach the business and appoint a person as receiver to manage the 

business. 

(2)  Attachment  of  a  business  under  this  regulation  shall  be  made  by  an  order 

prohibiting  the defaulter  from  transferring  or  charging  the business  in any  way  and 

prohibiting  all  persons  from  taking  any  benefit  under  such  transfer  or  charge,  and 

intimating that the business has been attached under this regulation.  

(3) A copy of the order of attachment shall be served on the defaulter, and another copy 

shall be affixed on a conspicuous part of the premises in which the business is carried 

on and on the notice board of the office of the Recovery Officer. 

 

Appointment of receiver for immovable property. 

109. 

Where immovable property is attached, the Recovery Officer may, instead 

of directing a sale of the property, appoint a person as receiver to manage such 

property. 

 

 

 
Page | 194  

 
 

 

Powers of receiver. 

110. 

(1)  Where  any  business  or  other  property  is  attached  and  taken  under 

management under the foregoing regulations, the receiver shall, subject to the 

control of the Recovery Officer, have such powers as may be necessary for the 

proper management of the property. 

(2)  A  receiver  appointed  under  these  regulations  shall  have  all  such  powers,  as  to 

bringing in and defending suits and for the realization, management, protection and 

preservation  of  the  property,  the  collection  of  the  rents  and  profits  thereof,  the 

application and disposal of such rents and profits, and the execution of documents as 

the owner himself has, or such of those powers as the Recovery Officer thinks fit. 

(3)  The  profits,  or  rents  and  profits,  of  such  business  or  other  property,  shall,  after 

defraying the expenses of management, be adjusted towards discharge of the arrears, 

and the balance, if any, shall be paid to the defaulter. 

 

Remuneration of a receiver. 

111. 

The Recover Officer may, by general or special order, fix the amount to be 

paid as remuneration for the services of the receiver. 

 

Duties of a receiver. 

112. 

(1) Every receiver so appointed shall— 

(a) 

furnish  such security  (if  any)  as  the  Recovery  Officer  thinks  fit,  duly  to 

account for what he shall receive in respect of the property; 

(b) 

submit  his  accounts  at  such  periods  and  in  such  form  as  the  Recovery 

Officer directs; 

(c) 

(d) 

pay the amount due from him as the Recovery Officer directs; and 

be responsible for any loss occasioned to the property by his wilful default 

or gross negligence. 

 

 
Page | 195  

 
 

 

(2) The receiver shall maintain true and regular accounts of the receivership and shall 

in particular maintain a cash book in which shall be entered from day to day all receipts 

and payments and also a ledger.  

(3) The receiver shall also maintain a counterfoil receipt book with the leaves numbered 

serially in print, from which shall be given, as far as possible, all receipts for payments 

made to the receiver. 

(4) Unless the Recovery Officer otherwise directs, the receiver shall, as soon as may be, 

after his appointment, open an account in the name of the receivership in such bank as 

the Recovery  Officer  may  direct  and  shall  deposit  therein  all  moneys  received  in the 

course of the receivership immediately on receipt thereof save any minimum sums that 

may be required for meeting day to day current expenses. All payments by the receiver 

shall, as far as possible, be made by cheques drawn on the bank account. 

(5) Unless otherwise ordered, a receiver shall submit his accounts once in every three 

months:  

Provided the first of such accounts commencing from the date of his appointment and 

ending with the expiry of three months therefrom shall be submitted within fifteen days 

of the expiry of the said period of three months and the subsequent accounts brought 

down to the end of each succeeding period of three months within fifteen days of the 

expiry of each such period of three months. 

 

Enforcement of receiver's duties. 

113. 

(1) Where a receiver fails to submit his accounts at such periods and in 

such form as the Recovery Officer directs, the Recovery Officer may direct his 

property to be attached until such time as such accounts are submitted to him. 

(2) The Recovery Officer may at any time make an enquiry as to the amount, if any, due 

from the receiver, as shown by his accounts or otherwise, or an inquiry as to any loss to 

the  property  occasioned  by  his  wilful  default  or  gross  negligence  and  may  order  the 

amount  found  due,  if  not  already  paid  by  the  receiver,  or  the  amount  of  the  loss  so 

occasioned, to be paid by the receiver within a period to be fixed by the Recovery Officer. 

 
Page | 196  

 
 

 

(3) Where the receiver fails to pay any amount which he has been ordered to pay under 

sub-regulation  (2)  within  the  period  specified,  the  Recovery  Officer  may  direct  such 

amount  to  be  recovered  from  the  security  (if  any)  furnished  by  the  receiver  or  by 

attachment  and sale of his property or, if his property has been  attached  under  sub- 

regulation (1), by the sale of such property and may direct the sale proceeds to be applied 

in making good any amount found due from the receiver or any such loss occasioned by 

him and the balance (if any) of the sale proceeds shall be paid to the receiver. 

(4) If a receiver fails to submit his accounts at such periods and in such form as directed 

by the Recovery Officer without reasonable cause or improperly retains any cash in his 

hands, the Recovery Officer may disallow the whole or any portion of the remuneration 

due  to  him  for  the  period  of  the  accounts  with  reference  to  which  the  default  is 

committed  and  may  also  charge  interest  at  a  rate  not  exceeding  twelve  per  cent  per 

annum  on  the  moneys  improperly  retained  by  him  for  the  period  of  such  retention 

without prejudice to any other proceedings which might be taken against the receiver. 

 

Withdrawal of management. 

114. 

The attachment and management under the foregoing regulation may be 

withdrawn at any time at the discretion of the Recovery Officer, or if the arrears 

are discharged by receipt of such profits and rents or are otherwise paid. 

 

 

 

 

CHAPTER VI 

 

ARREST AND DETENTION OF THE DEFAULTER 

 

Notice to show cause. 

115. 

(1) No order for the arrest and detention in civil prison of a defaulter shall 

be made unless the Recovery Officer has issued and served a notice upon the 

 
Page | 197  

 
 

 

defaulter  calling  upon  him  to  appear  before  him  on  the  date  specified  in  the 

notice and to show cause why he should not be committed to civil prison, and 

unless the Recovery Officer, for reasons recorded in writing, is satisfied— 

(a)  that  the  defaulter,  with  the  object  or  effect  of  obstructing  the  execution  of  the 

certificate,  has  dishonestly  transferred,  concealed,  or  removed  any  part  of  his 

property, or 

(b)   that the defaulter has, or has had since the drawing up of the certificate by the 

Recovery Officer, the means to pay the arrears or some substantial part thereof 

and refuses or neglects or has refused or neglected to pay the same. 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), a warrant for the arrest 

of the defaulter may be issued by the Recovery Officer if the Recovery Officer is satisfied, 

by affidavit or otherwise, that with the object or effect of delaying the execution of the 

certificate, the defaulter is likely to abscond or leave the local limits of the jurisdiction 

of the Recovery Officer. 

(3) Where appearance is not made in obedience to a notice issued and served under 

sub-regulation  (1),  the  Recovery  Officer  may  issue  a  warrant  for  the  arrest  of  the 

defaulter. 

(4) A warrant of arrest issued by a Recovery Officer under sub-regulation (2) or sub-

regulation  (3)  may  also  be  executed  by  any  other  Recovery  Officer  within  whose 

jurisdiction the defaulter may for the time being be found. 

(5) Every person arrested in pursuance of a warrant of arrest under this regulation shall 

be brought before the Recovery Officer issuing the warrant as soon as practicable and 

in any event within twenty-four hours of his arrest (exclusive of the time required for 

the journey):  

Provided that, if the defaulter pays the amount entered in the warrant of arrest 

as due and the costs of the arrest to the officer arresting him, such officer shall at once 

release him. 

Explanation.—For the purposes of this regulation,  

(i)  where the  defaulter  is  a company,  the  directors  and  other  officers who  are in 

default shall be deemed to be the defaulters;  

 
Page | 198  

 
 

 

(ii) where the defaulter is a partnership firm, all partners of the firm shall be deemed to 

be the defaulters; and  

(iii) where the defaulter is a Hindu undivided family, the Karta thereof shall be deemed 

to be the defaulter. 

 

 

Hearing. 

116. 

When a defaulter appears before the Recovery Officer in obedience to a 

notice to show cause or is brought before the Recovery Officer under regulation 

115, the Recovery Officer shall give the defaulter an opportunity of showing cause 

as to why he should not be committed to civil prison. 

 

Custody pending hearing. 

117. 

Pending the conclusion of the inquiry, the Recovery Officer may, in his 

discretion, order the defaulter to be detained in the custody of such officer as the 

Recovery Officer may think fit or release him on his furnishing security to the 

satisfaction of the Recovery Officer for his appearance whenever required. 

 

Order of detention. 

118. 

(1) Upon the conclusion of the inquiry, the Recovery Officer may make an 

order for the detention of the defaulter in the civil prison and shall in that event 

cause him to be arrested if he is not already under arrest: 

Provided that in order to give the defaulter an opportunity of satisfying the dues 

under the certificate along with any other dues under these regulations, the Recovery 

Officer may, before making the order of detention, leave the defaulter in the custody of 

the officer  arresting  him  or  of  any  other  officer  for  a  specified  period  not  exceeding 

fifteen days, or release him on his furnishing security to the satisfaction of the Recovery 

Officer for his appearance at the expiration of the specified period if the arrears are not 

so satisfied.  

 
Page | 199  

 
 

(2)  When  the  Recovery  Officer  does  not  make  an  order  of  detention  under  sub-

regulation (1) he shall, if the defaulter is under arrest, direct his release.  

 

Prison in which defaulter may be detained. 

119. 

A person against whom an order of detention has been passed may be 

detained  in  the  civil  prison  of  the  district  in  which  the  office  of  the  Recovery 

Officer ordering the detention is situated, or, where such civil prison does not 

afford suitable accommodation, in any other place which the State Government 

may  appoint  for  the  detention  of  persons  ordered  by  the  civil  courts  of  such 

district to be detained. 

 

Detention in and release from prison. 

120. 

(1) Every person detained in the civil prison in execution of a certificate 

may be so detained,— 

(a) where the certificate is for a demand of an amount exceeding two hundred and 

fifty rupees—for a period of six months, and 

(b) in any other case—for a period of six weeks: 

Provided that he shall be released from such detention— 

(i) on the amount mentioned in the warrant for his detention being paid to the officer-

in-charge of the civil prison, or 

(ii)  on  the  request  of  the  Recovery  Officer  on  any  ground  other  than  the  grounds 

mentioned in regulations 117 and 118. 

(2)  A  defaulter  released  from  detention  under  this  regulation  shall  not,  merely  by 

reason of his release, be discharged from his liability for the arrears; but he shall not be 

liable to be rearrested under the certificate in execution of which he was detained in the 

civil prison. 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page | 200  

 
 

 

Subsistence allowance. 

121. 

(1) When a defaulter is arrested or detained in the civil prison, the sum 

payable for the subsistence of the defaulter from the time of arrest until he is 

released shall be borne by the Recovery Officer. 

(2) Such sum shall be calculated on the scale fixed by the  State Government for the 

subsistence of judgment-debtors arrested in execution of a decree of a civil court. 

(3) Sums payable under this regulation shall be deemed to be costs in the proceeding: 

Provided that  the  defaulter  shall  not  be  detained  in  the  civil  prison  or  arrested  on 

account of any sum so payable. 

(4)  The subsistence allowance  shall  be supplied  by  the Recovery  Officer  by  monthly 

instalments in advance before the first day of each month. 

(5)  The  first  payment  shall  be made  to  the  Recovery  Officer  for  such  portion  of  the 

current  month  as  remains  unexpired  before  the  defaulter  is  committed  to  the  civil 

prison, and the subsequent payment (if any) shall be made to the officer in charge of 

the civil prison. 

 

Release. 

122. 

(1) The Recovery Officer may order the release of a defaulter who has been 

arrested in execution of a certificate upon being satisfied that he has disclosed 

the whole of his property and has placed it at the disposal of the Recovery Officer 

and that he has not committed any act of bad faith. 

(2) If the Recovery Officer has ground for believing the disclosure made by a defaulter 

under sub-regulation (1) to have been untrue, he may order the re-arrest of the defaulter 

in execution of the certificate, but the period of his detention in the civil prison shall not 

in the aggregate exceed that authorised by regulation 120. 

 

Release on ground of illness. 

123. 

 (1)  At  any  time  after  a  warrant  for  the  arrest  of  a  defaulter  has  been 

issued, the Recovery Officer may cancel it on the ground of his serious illness. 

 
Page | 201  

 
 

 

(2) Where a defaulter has been arrested, the Recovery Officer may release him if, in the 

opinion of the Recovery Officer, he is not in a fit state of health to be detained in the 

civil prison. 

(3)  Where  a  defaulter  has  been  committed  to  the  civil  prison,  he  may  be  released 

therefrom by the Recovery Officer on the ground of the existence of any infectious or 

contagious disease, or on the ground of his suffering from any serious illness. 

(4) A defaulter released under this regulation may be rearrested, but the period of his 

detention  in  the  civil  prison  shall  not  in  the  aggregate  exceed  that  authorised  by 

regulation 120. 

 

Entry into dwelling house. 

124. 

For the purpose of making an arrest under this regulation — 

(a) no dwelling house shall be entered after sunset and before sunrise; 

(b) no outer door of a dwelling house shall be broken open unless such dwelling house 

or a portion thereof is in the occupancy of the defaulter and he or other occupant 

of the house refuses or in any way prevents access thereto; but, when the person 

executing any such warrant has duly gained access to any dwelling house, he may 

break open the door of any room or apartment if he has reason to believe that the 

defaulter is likely to be found there; 

(c)  no  room,  which  is  in  the  actual  occupancy  of  a  woman  who,  according  to  the 

customs of the country, does not appear in public, shall be entered into unless the 

officer authorised to make the arrest has given notice to her that she is at liberty 

to withdraw and has given her reasonable time and facility for withdrawing; 

(c) no room, which is in the actual occupancy of a woman, shall be entered into unless 

the officer authorised to make the arrest has given reasonable notice to her and 

such officer is a woman or is accompanied by a woman officer. 

 

Prohibition against arrest of women or minors, etc. 

125. 

The Recovery Officer shall not order the arrest and detention in the civil 

prison of,- 

 
Page | 202  

 
 

 

(a) a woman, or 

(b) any person who, in his opinion, is a minor or of unsound mind. 

CHAPTER VII 

 

APPOINTMENT OF ADMINISTRATOR AND PROCEDURE FOR REFUNDING TO THE 

INVESTORS 

 

PART I – PRELIMINARY 

 

Applicability.  

126. 

(1)  Without  prejudice  to  the  other  provisions  of  these  regulations,  this 

provisions under this Chapter shall be applicable for all or any of the following: 

a.  appointment of Administrator pursuant to failure to comply with disgorgement 

or refund orders passed by the Board; 

b.  sale of properties attached by the Recovery Officer of the Board under the Act; 

c.  collection  of  claim  documents  and  verification  of  claims  of  investors  for  the 

purpose of effecting refunds; 

d.  refund  of  monies  to  the  investors  pursuant  to  disgorgement  or  refund  orders 

passed by the Board; 

e.  recovery of disgorgement amounts directed by the Board; 

f.  any act incidental or connected thereto. 

(2) Unless otherwise specifically ordered, these regulations shall not be applicable to 

cases  where  the  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal  or  a  Court  has  appointed  an 

administrator or any other person for the purposes of recovery and/or repayment to 

investors.  

(3) The provisions of these regulations shall apply mutatis mutandis in respect of the 

proceedings under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories 

Act, 1996.  

 

 

 
Page | 203  

 
 

Appointment of an Administrator.  

127. 

(1) For the purposes of this Chapter, the Board shall, after attachment of 

the properties of the defaulter by the Recovery Officer, appoint an Administrator 

in the manner specified:  

(2) Notwithstanding the generality of sub-regulation (1), the Board may decide not to 

appoint an Administrator–  

(i)  in case where the cost of administration would be higher than the amount 

that can be recovered from the defaulter through the means specified under 

the Act and these regulations; or  

(ii)  in such other circumstances that may be specified by the Board.  

 

Eligibility norms for appointment as an Administrator. 

128. 

(1) The Administrator shall be a person registered with the Insolvency and 

Bankruptcy  Board  of  India  as  an  Insolvency  Resolution  Professional  and 

empanelled by the Board from time to time.  

(2) No person shall be appointed as an Administrator where such an appointment may 

be objected to on the grounds that give rise to justifiable doubts as to the independence 

or impartiality of such a person: 

Provided that any question involving issues of conflict of interest in the appointment of 

an Administrator shall be decided by the Recovery Officer.  

(3)  The  Administrator  shall  provide  an  undertaking  to  the  Board  of  absence  of  any 

conflict  of  interest  with  the  defaulter,  its  directors,  promoters,  key  managerial 

personnel and its group entities.  

(4) The Administrator shall also forthwith disclose to the Board any conflict of interest 

which may come to his knowledge during his tenure: 

(5) For the purposes of these regulations, the Administrator shall be deemed to be a 

public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860) 

and sections 22 and 23 of the Act shall accordingly apply to him. 

 

 

 

 
Page | 204  

 
 

 

Terms of appointment. 

129. 

The terms and conditions of appointment including remuneration shall 

be specified by the Board, on a case to case basis, after taking into consideration 

the  quantum  of  work,  the  number  of  investors  and  the  quantum  of  money 

involved.  

 

 

Functions. 

PART II - FUNCTIONS OF THE ADMINISTRATOR 

130. 

(1) An Administrator shall perform the following functions – 

(a) As  may  be  directed  by  the  Recovery  Officer,  obtain from  the  defaulter  or  any 

other  person,  any  information  or  document  including  documents  relating  to 

ownership and possession of properties, details of amount raised from investors, 

claims of investors, amount claimed to have been refunded to investors;  

(b)  Make a record of the properties that have been attached by the Recovery Officer 

including  the  additional  properties  that  have  been  entrusted  by  the  Recovery 

Officer  from  time  to  time  and  those  properties  which  are  not  part  of  the 

attachment order;  

(c) Make a record of the bank accounts and dematerialised accounts of the defaulter 

and value of the monies and securities held thereunder; 

(d) Arrange for a proclamation for the sale of the property and arrange affixation of 

the copy of such proclamation; 

(e) Open  an  interest  bearing  bank  account,  under  the  control  of  the  Recovery 

Officer, with a scheduled public sector bank for depositing the proceeds of the 

money recovered from the sale of the assets and for making repayment to the 

investors; 

(f)  Sell the attached properties in accordance with these regulations or as may be 

directed by the Recovery Officer; 

 
Page | 205  

 
 

 

(g) Call for claims, in the manner specified in these regulations or as may be directed 

by the Recovery Officer, for the purposes of repayment to investors, pursuant to 

an order of the Board for refunds;  

(h) Verify  the  claims  of  investors  and  also  that  of  the  defaulter  in  respect  of 

repayment of  monies, either partly paid or wholly paid,  claimed to have been 

made to investors on the basis of documentary evidence:  

Explanation – Verification may involve forensic auditing. 

(i)  Carry out any other necessary incidental and supplementary act, with the prior 

approval of the Recovery Officer that may be required for the purpose of carrying 

out its obligations under these regulations. 

(2) While discharging the functions under these regulations, the Administrator -  

(a) may engage the services of a peer reviewed chartered accountant for verifying 

the  claims  of  investors  on  the  basis  of  documentary  evidence  and  for 

submission of a certified report to the Administrator;  

(b) shall engage the services of a registered valuer to evaluate the properties of 

defaulter that are attached by the Recovery Officer and for submission of a 

certified  valuation  report  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines  issued  by  the 

Board; 

(c) may  engage  the  services  of  a  registrar  and  share  transfer  agent  registered 

with the Board or such other agency as may be approved by the  Recovery 

Officer, for managing the entire repayment process.  

Provided that the fees paid for such services shall be fixed by the Administrator taking 

into account the relevant factors including –  

(a) the number of investors and the claims that are made; 

(b) quantum of work involved;  

(c) the number of assets to be evaluated;  

(d) the geographical location of the property and its proximity with the valuer’s place 

of business; 

and  such  fees  shall  be  within  the  overall  remuneration  fixed  by  the  Board  for  the 

Administrator:  

 
Page | 206  

 
 

 

Provided  further  that  the  intermediary  or  such  other  person  engaged  by  the 

Administrator,  shall  not  have  any  conflict  of  interest  which  would  impede  their 

independence or impartiality.  

(3) The Administrator shall submit a monthly report or a report as and when called for 

by the Recovery Officer on the progress of work entrusted including the monies realised 

pursuant to the sale of the properties and the repayments made to the investors. 

 

 

Sale of assets. 

PART III – SALE OF ASSETS  

131. 

(1)  The  Administrator  shall  undertake  the process  of  sale  of  properties 

after  conducting  an  independent  valuation  of  such  properties  by  a  registered 

valuer.  

(2)  After  considering  the  valuation  report,  the  Recovery  Officer  may  decide  on  the 

reserve price below which the property may not be sold.  

(3) The Administrator may undertake the sale of properties through electronic auction 

process  and  for  this  purpose  engage  an  electronic  auction  agency  and  shall  in 

consultation  with  the  Recovery  Officer  repeat  the  auction  process  till  the  time  such 

properties are disposed of or otherwise directed.  

(4)  The process of disposing off  the properties shall  be under the  supervision of  the 

Recovery Officer.  

(5) On completion of the sale and receipt of the sale consideration, the Recovery Officer 

shall issue an order confirming such sale.  

(6)  The  amount  realized  in  respect  of  sale  of  properties  of  the  defaulter  shall  be 

deposited in a separate bank account with a scheduled public sector bank in terms of 

clause (e) of sub-regulation (1) of regulation 130 and such account shall be under the 

control of the Recovery Officer. 

 

 

 

 
Page | 207  

 
 

 

PART IV – DISGORGEMENT OR REFUND OF MONIES 

Disgorgement or Refund to investors. 

 

132. 

(1)  For  the  purposes  of  inviting  claims  from  the  investors,  the 

Administrator shall -  

(a) issue advertisements in an English and a Hindi newspaper having nationwide 

circulation and if so directed by the Recovery Officer, issue such advertisement 

in vernacular newspaper(s) having circulation in the area(s) where the investors 

are concentrated; 

(b) direct the defaulter to issue advertisement in its website, if available.  

(2) The advertisement referred to sub-regulation (1) may also be hosted on the website 

of the Board. 

(3) The advertisements referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall contain instructions on 

the manner of making claims by investors and the documents and information that are 

to be submitted for verifying and processing their claim applications.  

(4)  The  filing  of  claims  from  the  investors  shall  be  through  electronic  mode  or  be 

received in the office of the Administrator as directed:  

Provided that the investors’ claims received, if any, by the Board and forwarded to the 

Administrator  shall  also  be  included  in  the  relevant  records  maintained  by  the 

Administrator.  

(5) The Administrator or the chartered accountant engaged by the Administrator, shall 

consider  the  total  eligible  claims  as  against  the  monies  available  for  distribution  to 

investors in order to determine whether the whole amount or a proportionate amount 

may be repaid to the investors as may be directed by the Recovery Officer.  

(6)  Upon  ascertaining  the  eligibility,  the  Administrator  in  consultation  with  the 

Recovery  Officer,  shall  repay  the  money  to  the  eligible  investors  only  through  pay 

orders, demand drafts and electronic transfer through NEFT or RTGS.  

(7) The refund process shall be kept open for an appropriate period as may be decided 

in consultation with the Recovery Officer.  

 
Page | 208  

 
 

 

(8) The monies remaining in the interest bearing escrow bank account after satisfying 

all the permissible claims of investors and other charges, shall be retained therein for a 

period of three years in order to meet the claims that may be received from any unpaid 

investor.  

(9)  Upon  completion  of  the  period  specified  under  sub-regulation  (8),  the  unpaid 

monies  due  to  investors,  if  any,  shall  be  transferred  to  the  Investor  Protection  and 

Education Fund of the Board: 

Provided that monies transferable under the Companies Act, 2013 [18 of 2013] to the 

Investor Education and Protection Fund shall be transferred to such fund. 

(10)  In  case  any  claim  is  received  from  an  unpaid  investor  in  respect  of  monies 

transferred to the Investor Protection and Education Fund after the refund process has 

been closed, the same may be made from the Investor Protection and Education Fund 

after  necessary  verification  by  the  Administrator  in  consultation  with  the  Recovery 

Officer: 

Provided that the claim shall be made within a period of three years from the date of 

transfer  of  monies  to  the  Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund  in  terms  of  sub-

regulation (9). 

(11) The defaulter, and its officers who are in default as defined under section 2 of the 

Companies  Act,  2013,  as  applicable,  shall  furnish  an  undertaking  that  they  shall  be 

liable for payment if any complaint is received in future by the Board from any investor. 

 

Costs incurred in administration and repayment process. 

133. 

(1)The  entire  costs  incurred  in  relation  to  the  sale  of  properties, 

verification  of  investors’  claims,  remuneration  of  Administrator  including  the 

fees  paid,  if  any,  to  the  chartered  accountant  or  valuer  or  such  other  person 

engaged  by  the  Administrator  and  registrar  and  share  transfer  agent  and  all 

other expenses incurred in connection with the recovery and/or the repayment 

process shall be borne by the defaulter(s), failing which, the monies recovered 

by the Board shall be appropriated in priority to the other liabilities.  

 
Page | 209  

 
 

(2)  The  cost  and  expenses  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  reasonable  and 

directly  related  to  and  necessary  for  the  act  and  purposes  referred  to  in  these 

regulations. 

(3) Where the Administrator is appointed on the request of a person against whom an 

order for disgorgement or refund had been issued by the Board, the remuneration of 

the Administrator and the other costs incurred in respect of recovery and/or refund to 

the investors shall be borne by such person.  

 

Priority in distribution of sale proceeds. 

134. 

The  proceeds  from  the  sale  of  properties  of  the  defaulter  shall  be 

distributed in the following order of priority, namely, - 

i. 

the costs of administration incurred by the Board, if any, and the fees and 

charges payable to the Administrator and other persons appointed by the 

administrator in performing its functions under these regulations;  

ii. 

iii. 

disgorgement and/or monies payable to investors: 

any other penalty or fees due from the defaulter to the Board under the 

provisions of the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or 

the Depositories Act, 1996.  

 

Refund in tranches. 

135. 

(1) Where recovery has not been completed but the Board is satisfied that 

refund  to  investors  should  be  initiated  based  on  the  monies  realized  at  the 

relevant time, the Board may direct the Administrator to initiate the process of 

refund to investors.  

(2) Unless otherwise decided by the Administrator, the investors in the same class shall 

receive proportionately.  

(3) The Administrator may refund claims in tranches by value. 

 

 

 

 

 
Page | 210  

 
 

 

Return of monies exceeding the liability. 

136. 

In case the proceeds realised by way of sale of properties of the defaulter 

is in excess of the monies due from him under the certificate and the applicable 

interest and other charges, the excess money shall be paid to the defaulter after 

completion of three years from the date of completion of the refund process.  

 

Filing of the repayment report. 

137. 

Upon  completion  of  the  repayments  to  all  investors  or  recovery  of  the 

disgorgement amount from the defaulter, the Administrator shall file a detailed 

repayment/recovery report to the Recovery Officer or Board, as the case may be, 

within the period as may be specified.  

 

PART V – DISGORGEMENT OF AMOUNTS 

 

 

Application of this Chapter to disgorgement. 

138. 

The provisions of these Chapter shall be applied in so far as it is applicable 

and  the  disgorgement  amount  so  recovered  shall  be  credited  to  the  Investor 

Protection  and  Education  Fund  of  the  Board  unless  distributed  to  eligible 

investors. 

Provided that no investor shall be eligible for receiving disgorgement monies unless,- 

i.  The investor has been identified by an order issued by the Board; 

ii.  The investor’s claim is in the nature of restitution for monies had and received 

by the defaulter(s) and not compensatory in nature. 

Explanation 1. –A claim for restitution means a claim where the wrongful loss to the 

claimant  directly  resulted  in,  and  amounted  to  the  wrongful  gain  of  the  defaulter(s) 

which has been disgorged and now claimed. 

Explanation 2. – A claim for compensation means a claim where the wrongful loss to 

the  claimant  did  not  directly  result  in,  and  amount  to  the  wrongful  gain  of  the 

defaulter(s) against whom disgorgement has been done but in the gain of someone else. 

 
Page | 211  

 
 

 

PART VI - GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 

Obligations and Responsibilities 

139. 

An Administrator - 

 

a)  shall  maintain  high  standards  of  integrity,  promptitude  and  fairness  in  the 

conduct of all his business;  

b)  shall act with due skill, care and diligence in the conduct of all his business; 

c)  shall  not  misrepresent  any  facts  or  situations  and  shall  refrain  from  being 

involved in any action that would bring disrepute to the profession;  

d)  shall  act  with  objectivity  during  the  course  of  his  professional  dealings  by 

ensuring  that  all  decisions  are  made  without  any  bias,  conflict  of  interest, 

coercion,  or  undue  influence  of  any  party,  whether  directly  or  indirectly 

connected to sale of properties, verification of claims and refund of monies; 

e)  shall not acquire, directly or indirectly, any of the assets of the defaulter; 

f)  shall  maintain  complete  independence  in  all  professional  relationships  and 

conduct the verification and refund process, as the case may be, independent of 

external influences;  

g)  shall  not  conceal  any  material  information  or  knowingly  make  a  misleading 

statement to the Recovery Officer or the Board; 

h)  shall not act with mala fide or be negligent while performing the functions and 

duties under the regulations;  

i)  shall provide all information and records as may be required by the Recovery 

Officer within the time specified by him;  

j)  shall  ensure  that  confidentiality  of  the  information  relating  to  the  sale  of 

properties, verification and refund process, is maintained at all times; 

Provided that the Administrator may disclose any information after obtaining 

written authorization of the Recovery Officer or the Board;  

k)  shall  disclose  all  costs  towards  the  verification  and  refund  process  and 

endeavour to ensure that such costs are not unreasonable; and  

l)  shall comply with the terms and conditions of its appointment. 

 
Page | 212  

 
 

 

 

PART VII - ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 

 

By an Administrator.  

140. 

(1)  The  Recovery  Officer  may,  for  reasons  to  be  recorded  in  writing, 

recommend for replacement of the Administrator, in case the Administrator has 

- 

a)  failed to comply with the terms and conditions of appointment;  

b)  engaged  valuers  or  chartered  accountants  or  such  other  persons  who  are 

ineligible to act so; 

c)  failed to comply with any of the obligations and responsibilities specified under 

these regulations;  

d)  acted against the instructions of the Recovery Officer or the Board; or 

e)  acted in such manner that is prejudicial to the interest of the investors. 

(2) Without  prejudice to  the actions  detailed  under  sub-regulation (1), the  Recovery 

Officer may recommend for initiation of any appropriate action under securities laws.  

(3) On receipt of such recommendation or suo moto, the Board may take appropriate 

action against the Administrator or such intermediary or such other person enagaged 

by the Administrator, including the following:  

(a) remove such Administrator from the Panel; 

(b)  forward  the  matter  to  the  Insolvency  and  Bankruptcy  Board  of  India  for 

appropriate  action  against  the  Administrator  who  is  an  Insolvency  Resolution 

Professional; and 

(c) issue suitable directions restraining such person from engaging in activities in 

the securities market in his professional capacity.  

 

Loss of registration. 

141. 

If  the  registration  of  an  Administartor  with  the  Insolvency  and 

Bankruptcy  Board  of  India  is  cancelled  or  suspended  at  any  time,  such 

 

 
Page | 213  

 
 

 

 

Administrator shall be deemed to have been removed from the Panel till such 

cancellation  or  suspension  is  in  effect  and  be forthwith  relieved  of  any  duties 

under these regulations.  

CHAPTER IX 

 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Power to take evidence. 

142. 

The Recovery Officer or other officer acting under the provisions of these 

regulations  shall  have  the  powers  of  a  civil  court  while  trying  a  suit  for  the 

purpose of receiving evidence, administering oaths, enforcing the attendance of 

witnesses and compelling the production of documents.  

 

Continuance of certificate. 

143. 

No  certificate  shall  cease  to  be  in  force  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the 

defaulter. 

 

Procedure on death of defaulter. 

144. 

If at any time after the certificate is drawn up by the Recovery Officer, the 

defaulter  dies,  the  proceedings  under  these  regulations  (except  arrest  and 

detention) may be continued against the legal representative of the defaulter in 

terms  of  section  28B  of  the  Act  or  section  23JC  of  the  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulation) Act, 1956 or section 19-IC of the Depositories Act, 1996, and the 

provisions  of  these  regulation  shall  apply  as  if  the  legal  representative  is  the 

defaulter.  

 

Recovery from surety. 

145. 

Where any person has become surety for the amount due by the defaulter, 

he may be proceeded against under these regulations as if he were the defaulter. 

 

 
Page | 214  

 
 

 

Recovery by suit or under other law not affected. 

146. 

The  several  modes  of  recovery  specified  in  these  regulations  shall  not 

affect in any way the right of the Board to institute a suit for the recovery of the 

amount  due  from  the  defaulter  and  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  Board  to  have 

recourse  to  any  such  suit,  notwithstanding  that  the  amount  due  is  being 

recovered from the defaulter by any mode specified in these regulations. 

 

Costs and charges. 

147. 

(1) The following costs and expenses shall be recoverable in execution of 

a certificate -  

(a) costs incurred in attachment of movable properties, including expenses incurred in 

execution of attachment proceedings, 

(b) charges incurred in valuation of movable and immovable properties, 

(c) costs of publishing notices, orders etc. including in newspapers, 

(d) costs incurred in service of notices, 

(e) costs incurred in maintaining custody of articles attached, and  

(f)  such other costs and expenses that may be incurred in realizing the amounts due 

under the certificate.  

 

Power to seek information. 

148. 

(1)  The  Recovery  Officer  may  at  any  stage  of  the  execution  of  the 

certificate  of  recovery,  seek  from  any  person,  any  information  which  may  be 

relevant  to  execution  of  the  certificate  of  recovery  or  to  any  investigation  or 

inquiry by the Recovery Officer. 

(2) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provision, the Recovery Officer may 

at any stage of the execution of the certificate of recovery, require any person against 

whom  or  which  the  certificate  of  recovery  is  issued,  and  if  such  person  is  a  body 

corporate from  any of its officers, to declare on  affidavit the particulars of his or its 

assets. 

 

 
Page | 215  

 
 

 

Continuance of pending proceedings. 

149. 

All proceedings for the recovery of amounts initiated and pending before 

the  coming  into  force  of  these  regulations  shall  be  continued  under  these 

regulations,  and,  for  this  purpose,  every  certificate  issued  by  the Recovery 

Officer before  coming  into  force  of  these  regulations  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a 

certificate drawn up by the Recovery Officer under the corresponding provisions 

of these regulations.  

 

Officers deemed to be acting judicially. 

150. 

The Recovery Officer or other officers shall, in the discharge of functions 

under Act or the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 or the Depositories 

Act,  1995  and  these  regulations,  be  deemed  to  be  acting  judicially  within  the 

meaning of the Judicial Officers Protection Act, 1850 (18 of 1850).  

 

Forms. 

151. 

The Board or the Recovery Officer may specify by way of a circular the 

forms to be used for any order, notice, warrant, or certificate to be issued under 

these regulations.  

 

Power of the Board to issue clarifications. 

152. 

In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of 

these regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines, as deemed 

necessary.  

 

Power to determine procedure in certain circumstances.  

153. 

In a situation not provided for in these regulations, the Recovery Officer, 

with  the  approval  of  the  Board,  may  determine  the  procedure  for  specific 

matters, as may be required.  

 

 

 
Page | 216  

 
 

 

 

 

Repeal and Savings.  

154. 

(1) On the commencement of these regulations,- 

i. 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Appointment  of 

Administrator and Procedure for Refunding to the Investors) Regulations, 

2018 shall stand repealed and  any action taken under those regulations 

shall be deemed to have been taken under these regulations and continued 

under these regulations; and 

ii. 

any ongoing proceedings before a Recovery Officer appointed by the Board 

may be continued under these regulations. 

*******

 
Page | 217  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PART-C 

QUANTIFICATION OF ‘DISPROPORTIONATE GAIN OR UNFAIR 

ADVANTAGE’ AND ‘LOSS CAUSED TO AN INVESTOR OR GROUP OF 

INVESTORS AS A RESULT OF THE DEFAULT’ AND RELATED ISSUES 

 

 

 

I.  RELEVANCE OF QUANTIFICATION OF ‘PROFIT’ AND ‘LOSS’ 

AN INTRODUCTION 

 

Securities  laws  require  the  Board  and  the  Adjudicating  Officer  to  take  into  account 

relevant factors for the purpose of arriving at a suitable penalty to be levied on the persons 

who violate securities laws, viz. -  

(i) 

the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage,  wherever 

quantifiable, as a result of the default;  

(ii) 

the amount of loss caused to an investor or group of investors as a result of the 

default; and 

(iii) 

the repetitive nature of default. 

 

The  existing  settlement  regulations  also  require  the  Board  to  take  into  account  these 

factors.39 In the Report on the Settlement mechanism of the Board, this Committee has 

dealt  with  the  factors  relating  to  the  ‘repetitive  nature  of  the  default’.  In  the  Indian 

context, the first notable attempt to lay down the manner of quantification in relation to 

securities fraud was made by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in the matter of Trojan 

& Co. Ltd v R. M. N. N. Nagappa Chettiar40, wherein the apex court inter alia held as 

follows, - 

“Ordinarily the market rate of the shares on the date when the fraud was practised 

would  represent  their  real  price  in  the  absence  of  any  other  circumstance.  If, 

however, the market was vitiated or was in a state of flux or panic in consequence 

of the very fact that was fraudulently concealed, then the real value of the shares 

has to be determined on a consideration of a variety of circumstances disclosed 

by the evidence led by the parties. (emphasis supplied) Thus though ordinarily the 

market rate on the earliest date when the real facts became known may be taken as 

the  real  value  of  the  shares,  nevertheless,  if  there  is  no  market  or  there  is  no 

                                                           
39 Regulations 9 and 10 of the Settlement Regulations. 
40 AIR 1953 SC 235, 1953 SCR 780. 

 

 
Page | - 219 -  

 

 

satisfactory evidence of a market rate for some time which may safely be taken as 

the real value, then if the representee sold the shares, although not bound to do so, 

and if the resale has taken place within a reasonable time and on reasonable terms 

and has not been unnecessarily delayed, then the price fetched at the resale may 

well  be  taken  into  consideration  in  determining  retrospectively  the  true  market 

value of the shares on the crucial date. If there is no market at all or if the market 

rate cannot, for reasons referred to above, be taken as the real or fair value of the 

thing and the representee has not sold the things, then in ascertaining the real or 

fair value of the thing on the date when deceit was practised subsequent events 

may be taken into account, provided such subsequent events are not attributable 

to extraneous circumstances which supervened on account of the retaining of the 

thing. These, we apprehend, are the well settled rules for ascertaining the loss and 

damage suffered by a party, in such circumstances. (emphasis supplied) 

… 

In  order  to  determine  the  real  price  of  these  3,000  shares  sold  to  plaintiff  by 

concealment of certain facts, the first question that needs decision is whether the 

market for these shares, the rate prevailing wherein would prima facie be a true 

index  of  their  value,  had  been  affected  by  the  very  fact  concealed  of  which  the 

plaintiff complains. In this case from the proved facts it is clear that the market 

rate of these shares was seriously affected by reason of the impending decision of 

the Stock Exchange for closing it to stop the wave of speculation that had taken 

the frenzy of the market by reason of the merger of the two steel companies doing 

business in northern India. (emphasis supplied) The market reports for the week 

ending March 19, show that the Indian Irons were standing at or around Rs. 55. By 

Satur  day  the  3rd  April  after  the  announcement  of  the  terms  of  the  merger  by 

reason of the keen speculation the shares were being dealt at around Rs. 73. On 

Monday the 6th April the price was Rs. 77. On Tuesday the 6th, the day when the 

decision was taken to close the market for two days, these shares touched Rs. 79 

but  by  the  close  of  business  fell  back  to  Rs.  72  a  sudden  drop  of  Rs.  7.  On 

Wednesday the 7th April in the Calcutta market they closed at Rs. 58, a drop of Rs. 

14 in a day. These sudden rises and falls in the market during the course of these 

 
Page | - 220 -  

 

 

two days are sufficient indication of the fact that the drop was due to the decision 

of the Stock Exchange to close the Exchange for two days. There is no evidence that 

any other factor was then disturbing the market rate of these shares. 

… 

 Considering  the  whole  of  this  material,  we  are  satisfied  that  the  market  rate 

prevailing on the 5th, 6th and 7th had been affected by reason of the decision of 

the Calcutta Stock Exchange to keep the market closed on the 8th and 9th and the 

market did not settle down till about the 17th or 18th and the prices then ruling 

can  in  the  circumstances  of  this  case  be  said  to  be  their  true  market  price. 

(emphasis supplied) In our judgment, Rs. 46 per share was the real price of these 

shares when they were put in the plaintiff's pocket and he got Rs. 46 for each share 

in  lieu  of  what  he  paid  for  either  at  Rs.  77  or  at  Rs.  77-4-0.  He  is  entitled  to 

commission  also  which  he  would  have  to  pay  on  the  sale  of  these  shares. 

(emphasis supplied) The difference between these two rates is the damage that he 

has suffered and he is entitled to it.” 

Thus,  where  a  person  is  induced  to  purchase  shares  at  a  certain  price  by  fraud,  the 

measure  of  damages41  which  he  is  entitled  to  recover  from  the  seller  is  the  difference 

between the price which he paid for the shares and the real price of the shares on the date 

on which the shares were purchased. Ordinarily the market rate of the shares on the date 

when  the fraud was practised  would  represent their real price in the absence of  any 

other circumstance. If, however, the market was vitiated or was in a state of  flux or 

panic as a consequence of the very fact that was fraudulently concealed, then the real 

value  of  the  shares  has  to  be  determined  on  a  consideration  of  a  variety  of 

circumstances. 

 

However, post this decision, the Committee is at pains to find any further judicial decision 

laying down, in substantial detail, principles relating to quantification.  

                                                           
41 Fraud is also a part of the law relating to Torts and contracts for which damages may be awarded. Damages in law 
are  of  several  kinds  and  ordinary  damages  are  directly  linked  to  the  loss  caused.  Thus  quantification  of  damages 
indirectly leads to quantification of loss caused and is relevant to the entire exercise. 

 

 
Page | - 221 -  

 

 

The scope for revision is abundantly clear from the manner in which the Board has fared 

before appellate forums in the recent past, in particular,42 the manner of quantification of 

profit by the Board was questioned and matter(s) remanded for SEBI to lay down the 

norms for determining illegal profits. Unless the manner of quantification is laid down in 

a  transparent  manner  it  will  be  difficult  to  justify  why  a  particular  amount  should  be 

disgorged or a particular penalty be levied, leaving abundant scope for defaulters to obtain 

favourable orders to the detriment of investors and the integrity of the securities market 

as  a  whole.  The  quantification  of  illegitimate  profit  and  loss  to  investors  is  a  complex 

exercise that involves consideration of several factors such as, - the determination of net 

gains and amounts that may be deducted, joint and several liability, applying the correct 

financial economics techniques, tax considerations, the nature of the violation, etc. The 

Committee has attempted to understand the various global practices and works by experts 

available on the subject to distil a probable methodology for quantification. 

 

NEED FOR PRESENT REVISION 

 

The Committee has had several deliberations with the officers of the Board as well as other 

experts.  It  has  also  had  the  advantage  of  studying  the  settlement  and  enforcement 

mechanisms  in  a  holistic  manner.  The  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  a  clear  public 

guidance is needed in the manner of quantification for the following reasons, - 

1.  The existing manner of quantification of profit is very basic and can be enhanced 

in  view  of  the  technical  and  financial  resources  available  with  the  Board.  It  is 

presently limited to very specific cases and several best practices can be adopted 

in them; 

B 

Ramalinga 

                                                           
42 
at 
<http://sat.gov.in/english/pdf/E2017_JO2014286.PDF>; SRSR Holdings Pvt Ltd v SEBI, SAT order dated 11.08.2017, 
available at <http://sat.gov.in/english/pdf/E2017_JO2015463.PDF> Also see, Somani Overseas Ltd  & Ors v SEBI, 
SAT order dated 30.06.2016, available at <http://sat.gov.in/english/pdf/E2016_JO2014227.PDF> inter alia directing 
SEBI to set out the norms for determining illegal gains, - 

12.05.2017, 

Raju 

v 

available 

SEBI, 

SAT 

order 

dated 

“while upholding the decision of WTM of SEBI that the appellants are liable to disgorge the illegal gains made 
on  sale  of  SIL  scrip  during  the  investigation  period,  we  set  aside  the  illegal  profits  quantified  at  Rs. 
4,69,40,232/- and direct that the quantum of illegal profits be determined afresh by setting out the norms laid 
down by SEBI for determining the illegal profits.” (emphasis supplied) 

 
Page | - 222 -  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.  The  manner  of  quantification  of  loss  to  investors,  as  a  guidance  for  levy  of 

penalties needs to be laid down; 

3.  In  the meeting  held  with  the  members  of  the  High Power  Advisory Committee 

constituted under the Settlement Regulations, the need to lay down the manner of 

quantification was stressed upon; 

4.  The Securities Appellate Tribunal has required the Board to set out the principles 

of quantification43; 

5.  The Committee’s Report on Settlement Mechanism had recommended settlement 

based on a factual consideration of all types of cases including insider trading. This 

was linked to quantification of profit made and loss caused to the investors; 

6.  Quantification  in  the  long  run,  would  be  a  major  deterrent  in  cases  relating  to 

fraud, tipper-tippee liability, front-running, etc.; and 

7.  Quantification  will  also  enable  the  Board  to  justify  its  orders  before  appellate 

forums,  which  may  otherwise  reduce  the  penalties  and  disgorgement  amounts 

since there is no appropriate guidance for the appellate authorities that may justify 

the penalties levied and monies disgorged. 

                                                           
43 Ibid. 

 

 
Page | - 223 -  

 

GLOBAL SCENARIO 

 

In the Committee’s earlier report, the Committee had made an examination of the laws, 

processes and practices prevailing in the USA and UK. While the UK processes do require 

that various factors be taken into account while taking an action or settling the violations, 

there  is  however  little  jurisprudence  available  in  the  public  domain  in  respect  of 

quantification.  

 

The United States of America is known for the constitutional protection afforded to its 

citizens and many of our constitutional and securities laws principles are borrowed from 

them. Their system is also known for enforcement of securities laws and decades have 

been spent in developing their present guidelines. Their methods of quantification reflect 

in their quasi-judicial orders, from which the securities laws jurisprudence of our country 

can  be  enriched  and  the  outcome  experienced  in  the  recent  cases  be  avoided  in  the 

future.44 

 

In the USA, the federal courts alone are competent to impose penalties, as well as order 

imprisonment, based on profit and loss factors. Hence there is abundant jurisprudence 

available in the public domain where the federal courts have calculated the profit and loss 

caused to the investors. In the instance of insider trading alone, the USA judicial system 

now  takes  into  account  several  different  methods  (including  statistical  methods  to  be 

done by economists) of calculating the gains as a result of the default. Depending on the 

circumstances, the courts adopt the best method, to distinguish between ‘legitimate’ gains 

and ‘illegal’ gains.45 

                                                           
44 See Umakanth Varottil, “SAT Order in the Satyam Case”, available at <https://indiacorplaw.in/2017/05/sat-order-
in-satyam-case.html>: 

“Courts in several jurisdictions have sought to set out principles on how to compute wrongful profits or gains 
in case of  securities offences such as  insider  trading  or market manipulation, but this area  is riddled with 
controversies.  In  the end,  it  might be necessary for SEBI to establish  clearer guidelines  on determining 
sanctions  so  that  the  outcome  experienced  in  the  Satyam  case  can  be  avoided  in  the future.”  (emphasis 
supplied) 

45  See  Lai  PY,  “The  Calculation  of  Illicit  Profit  in  US  Insider Trading  Cases”,  (2013)  J  Stock  Forex  Trad  2:105. 
doi:10.4172/2168-9458.1000105,  available  at  <https://www.omicsonline.org/open-access/the-calculation-of-illicit-
profit-in-us-insider-trading-cases-2168-9458-2-105.pdf>,  the  article  shows  the  approaches  across  jurisdictions  are 
similar;  Alexandra A.E. Shapiro  &  Nathan H. Seltzer,  “Measuring  “Gain” Under The Insider Trading  Sentencing 
 
Page | - 224 -  

 

 

A BIRD’S EYE VIEW OF SOME OF THE GLOBAL METHODOLOGIES FOR CALCULATING 

THE AMOUNT DUE FOR DISGORGEMENT IN INSIDER TRADING CASES 

 
INTRODUCTION: 

The economic activities of the capital market of a nation are one of the key segments to 

boost the economic growth of the country. A healthy capital market can be created if 

the stock exchanges are well regulated. As the business world continues to expand in 

global markets, trading of shares, bonds, derivatives and other instruments continues 

to increase. One form of trading that has received considerable regulatory and academic 

interest in recent years is insider trading. Around the world, an active enforcement of 

criminal laws and regulations has increased its focus on preventing and/or punishing 

insider trading and market abuse.  

 

Bhattacharya  &  Daouk46,  in  a  study  of  103  countries  that  have  securities  markets, 

revealed  that  only  87  countries  have  laws  dealing  with  insider  trading  and  only  38 

countries have successfully enforced their laws against this crime. This situation is the 

result of a dispute between the two main theoretical streams.47 The first is convinced 

that a ban on insider trading reduces market efficiency and managers’ compensation, 

while the other states that the insider trader appropriates the value of the preferential 

information to the detriment of other investors and consequently the repression of this 

crime increases the investors’ trust in the market, and hence its liquidity. Further, a ban 

on  it  reduces  market  efficiency,  the  insider,  by  carrying  out  his  strategy,  pushes  the 

stock  price  faster  towards  the  value  that  better  reflects  the  fundamentals  of  the 

company.48 According to the ‘misappropriation’ theory, the preferential information is 

                                                           
Guideline Based On Culpability For The Deception”, Federal Sentencing Reporter, Vol. 20, No. 3, February 2008, p 
194, 
at,  <https://www.lw.com/thoughtLeadership/measuring-gain-under-insider-trading-sentencing-
guideline>.  

available 

46  Utpal  Bhattacharya  &  Hazem  Daouk,  “The  World  Price  of  Insider  Trading”,  pp  3,  available  at 
<https://faculty.fuqua.duke.edu/~charvey/Teaching/BA453_2005/BD_The_world.pdf> : The Journal of Finance Vol. 
57, No. 1 (Feb., 2002), pp. 75-108 
47  Marcello  Minenna,  ‘Insider  Trading,  Abnormal  Return  and  Preferential  Information:  Supervising  through  a 
Probabilistic 
at 
<https://nscpolteksby.ac.id/ebook/files/Ebook/Journal/2015/Banking%20and%20Finance/Vol.%2027/Volume%202
7%20Issue%201/Page%2059-86/Insider%20trading-abnormal%20return%20and.pdf>. 
48 Finnerty, J., 1976. Insiders and market efficiency. Journal of Finance 31, 1141–1148. 

available 

Model’, 

 

 
Page | - 225 -  

 

property of the company. Therefore, any exploitation of information carried out by a 

subject other than the owner, i.e., the company, could be considered to be a theft.49 As 

a consequence, other investors do not have the same investment opportunities as the 

insider  and  this  is  unacceptable  according  to  the  ‘market  egalitarianism’  theory.50 

According to this view, making this a crime increases investors’ trust in the market, and 

enhance its integrity. 

 

Regulation and enforcement of insider trading laws is important because investors are 

likely  to  be more  confident  in  the  financial  statements of  companies  that  operate  in 

countries with strong insider trading laws. In addition, investments within countries 

having insider trading laws may be viewed as less risky as the information is considered 

to be more reliable. Therefore, some quantitative procedures have to be used in order 

to detect the phenomenon, to compute the value of preferential information and hence, 

to calculate the disgorgement, which is the undue wealth gained by the insider through 

the  exploitation  of  preferential  information.  This  estimate  offers,  in  all  legal 

jurisdictions  punishing  the  crime  of  insider  trading,  a  benchmark  to  identify  the 

sanction  to  be  imposed  against  the  insider  and,  as  such,  can  be  considered  the  link 

between the financial and legal aspects.  

 

WHAT IS DISGORGEMENT? 

The paramount purpose of enforcing the prohibition against insider trading by ordering 

disgorgement is to make sure that wrongdoers will not profit from their wrongdoing. 

Disgorgement  is  an  equitable  remedy,  imposed  to  force  a  defendant  to  give  up  the 

amount  by  which  he  was  unjustly  enriched  (FTC  v.  Bronson  Partners51).  By  forcing 

wrongdoers to give back the fruits of their illegal conduct, disgorgement also “has the 

effect of deterring subsequent fraud” (SEC v. Cavanagh52). Because disgorgement does 

                                                           
49 Georges, S., 1976. L’utilisation en bourse d’informations privilegi’ees dans le droit des Etats-Units, Economica. 
50 Langevoort, L., 1987. Insider trading: regulation, enforcement and prevention. Clark Boardman Company, New 
York; Loss, S., 1983. Fundamentals of securities regulation. Clark Boardman Company, Boston. 
51  Federal  Trade  Commission  v.  Bronson  Partners,  LLC,  654  F.3d  359  (2d  Cir.  2011),  available  at 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/223605/ftc-v-bronson-partners-llc/>. 
52  SEC  v.  Cavanagh, No.  98-Civ.-1818-DLC, 2004  WL  1594818,  at  30  (S.D.N.Y.  July  16,  2004), aff'd, 445  F.3d 
105 (2d Cir.2006). 

 

 
Page | - 226 -  

 

not serve a punitive function, the disgorgement amount may not exceed the amount 

obtained through the wrongdoing.  

 

Hence,  the  difficulty  in  identifying  an  objective,  realistic,  and  effective  way  of 

computing this value can give raise to problems in assessing the damage caused by the 

insider to the market and, consequently, to the enforcement action.53 

 

THE CALCULATION OF ILLICIT PROFIT/ DISGORGEMENT IN INSIDER TRADING CASES 

 

There are currently divergent approaches for calculating illicit profit in insider trading 

cases.  What  constitutes  ‘profit’  differs  from  case  to  case  as  different  court  decisions 

confront each other, however a closer look will reveal that each method is relevant to 

the  facts  in  which  it  was  applied  and  there  is  no  real  conflict  to  resolve.  The  major 

approaches which have been adopted worldwide are the (1) net profit approach, (2) the 

notional profit approach (also known as market absorption approach), (3)  the event 

studies approach and (4) the potential probabilistic disgorgement approach. 

 

  NET PROFIT APPROACH: The net profit approach is the approach which considers the 

total  increase  in  value  realized  through  trading  in  securities.  Gain  is  the  total  profit 

actually  made  from  a  defendant’s  illegal  securities  transactions.  Applying  this  can 

sometimes include legal gains also, hence its universal application is inappropriate. 

 

  NOTIONAL PROFIT: THE MARKET ABSORPTION APPROACH: The notional approach is 

the approach which treats the relevant profit as those gains made by the insider dealer 

when the information was made public and the market had a reasonable opportunity 

to digest the information. The gain is to be measured by reference to the market value 

of the shares at that date. At that date, the amount of the insider dealer’s profit, whether 

realized or not, was fixed once and for all. Subsequent changes in  market prices are 

                                                           
53  Marcello  Minenna,  ‘Insider  Trading,  Abnormal  Return  and  Preferential  Information:  Supervising  through  a 
Probabilistic 
at 
<https://nscpolteksby.ac.id/ebook/files/Ebook/Journal/2015/Banking%20and%20Finance/Vol.%2027/Volume%202
7%20Issue%201/Page%2059-86/Insider%20trading-abnormal%20return%20and.pdf>. 

available 

Model’, 

 

 
Page | - 227 -  

 

irrelevant. This method requires proper choice of the ‘relevant’ period when the market 

can be said to have absorbed the information and reflect it into the price. 

 

  THE  EVENT  STUDIES  APPROACH:  STANDARD  APPROACH:  The  event-study  analysis, 

which  estimates  the  effect  on  stock  returns  of  occurrences,  such  as  mergers, 

acquisitions,  takeovers,  announcements,  variation  of  the  regulation  in  the  reference 

micro-economical  system,  etc.,  is  widely  used.  Event  studies  is  an  econometric 

approach  as  it  seeks  to  isolate  the  impact  of  inside  information  from  other  market 

factors  because  a  genuine  event  studies  approach  would  require  regression  analysis 

using logical reasoning and statistical methods.  

 

The constraints of the event study approach are as follows,- 

a.  The methodology requires time-series data, i.e. it is useful for scrips that have 

been listed for at least some time (around 2 years), therefore not useful for listing 

defaults.  

b.  The  insider-trading  examination  is  subordinated  to  the  determination  of  a 

statistically significant reference index, which plays the role of a market portfolio 

proxy.  This  approach  would  be  difficult  to  implement  in  the  case  of  a  large 

number  of  thinly  traded  stocks.  Therefore,  stock  selection  is  an  important 

criteria, it may apply to some and not apply to some scrips. 

c.  The choice of a long time horizon could include events that changed the company 

capital structure, such as mergers, acquisitions, regulation variation, etc. to help 

understand scrip specific movements.  

d.  This methodology requires the testing of all the hypotheses related to a linear 

regression  model.  If  those  hypotheses  cannot  be  verified,  the  results  can  be 

invalid or lead to inevitable methodological problems. 

e.  Rumors  relating  to  the  stock  could  generate  spikes  in  the  returns  during  the 

stipulated period (the reference time for the estimate). 

f.  The  event-study  methodology  applied  to  insider  trading  estimates  the  future 

stock returns by a linear regression model. Therefore, it relies on the assumption 

 

 
Page | - 228 -  

 

that the returns on a narrow interval are generated by the same linear model 

coming from a set of information belonging to a definitely wider time window. 

g.  The methodology calculates only one cumulative abnormal return in relation to 

the  preferential  information.  By  doing  so,  it  does  not  take  into  account 

differences in the trading strategies of insiders that usually represent differences 

in their knowledge of the preferential information 

 

  POTENTIAL PROBABILISTIC DISGORGEMENT  APPROACH:  The Potential  Probabilistic 

Disgorgement approach is a new procedure for computing the economic value of the 

information  exploited  by  the  insider,  based  on  a  probabilistic  approach.54  This 

methodology overcomes the issues connected to the event-study procedure and can be 

applied by construction to all insider-trading schemes and not only to the simplest ones. 

In fact, the model parameters are defined by using the trading strategy of the single 

insider; thus, if insider trading takes place, the model is able to offer a disgorgement 

computation; hence, by hypotheses of its construction, it is able to detect the difference 

between insiders and followers. 

 

The advantages of the potential probabilistic computation are as follows,- 

a.  The  definition  of  the  parameters  is  extremely  realistic  and  difficult  to  break 

down,  since  it  represents  the  insider-trading  strategy  on  the  stock  under 

investigation carried out in the period which includes the insider trading- days 

before the disclosure of the information to the market and consequently entails 

the  set  of  information  composed  by  prices  and  quantities  which  create  the 

portfolio of the insider on the stock. 

b.  It  allows  the  determination  of  all  the  possible  paths  of  the  stock  under 

investigation under a predictive dynamic logic. 

c.  It cannot be invalidated by the fact that the company has been recently quoted, 

since if the insider can trade the stock, the procedure can return, by means of the 

                                                           
54  Marcello  Minenna,  ‘Insider  Trading,  Abnormal  Return  and  Preferential  Information:  Supervising  through  a 
Probabilistic 
at 
<https://nscpolteksby.ac.id/ebook/files/Ebook/Journal/2015/Banking%20and%20Finance/Vol.%2027/Volume%202
7%20Issue%201/Page%2059-86/Insider%20trading-abnormal%20return%20and.pdf>. 

available 

Model’, 

 

 
Page | - 229 -  

 

parameters-estimation procedure, a disgorgement computation. 

d.  It does not require a regressor since the stock path forecast depends only on the 

prices  of  the  stock  under  investigation  incorporated  in  the  insider  trader 

portfolio. 

e.  It does not require the definition of time horizons longer than the insider-trading 

days for estimating the parameters to be employed in the analysis; therefore, it 

is not affected by the stock liquidity, by the discontinuity of the time series, and 

other typical issues of econometric procedures. 

f.  It  offers a customized methodology for the single subject under investigation, 

since  the  model  behaves  differently  according  to  the  single  insider-trading 

strategy. Further, by assuming that the insider who is closer to the information 

will have the more profitable trading strategy, it gives a higher disgorgement to 

the subjects who are closer to the preferential information and therefore it is able 

to distinguish between insiders and followers (i.e., tippes and other insiders). 

g.  The  stochastic  process  employed  benefits  from  the  Markov  property.  This 

property  makes  the  model  absolutely  coherent  with  the  weak  form  of  market 

efficiency. 

h.  It is a more intuitive approach, since it works directly on prices and not on return 

and  it  is  a  faster  and  easier  procedure,  in  terms  of  implementation,  than  the 

potential econometric disgorgement computation, since it can skip all the issues 

related to the statistical robustness tests. 

 

INTERNATIONAL PRACTICE  

SEC  has  mostly  adopted  the  Event  Study  methodology  for  calculating  illicit  profit, 

however,  the  divergent  approaches  are  considered  by  courts  for  calculating 

Disgorgement depends on the facts and circumstance of each case and the arguments 

raised by the defendants. This Report takes into account various such methods, each of 

which depend on the facts and circumstances under consideration.  

 

 

 
Page | - 230 -  

 

In the case of, United States v. Nacchio55 the event studies approach was used for the 

disgorgement calculation, however, in the case of United States v. Raj Rajaratnam56 

the market absorption approach was considered under the disgorgement calculation. 

Hong  Kong57  has  also  adopted  the  market  absorption  approach  to  calculate 

disgorgement. The Italian regulator Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa 

(CONSOB), has developed two methods: (i) a Modified Event Study Method that has 

been adjusted to the behaviour of the Italian securities markets; and (ii) a new Potential 

Probabilistic Method for calculating the disproportionate gains due for disgorgement.  

 

 

******** 

In this respect the Committee has examined the law prevalent in other jurisdictions and 

arrived  at  certain  important  conclusions  after  drawing  upon  some  well-established 

principles, as follows, - 

1.  The Indian law of insider trading58 is similar to that of the USA59. This makes it 

easier  for  adopting  similar  means  and  methods  for  quantification  of  gains  and 

losses.60 The Committee has already noted that there are many ways to calculate 

gains relating to insider trading. In so far as liability of an insider who is a tippee 

is  concerned,  the  quantification  of  gains  requires  the  Board  to  adopt  certain 

(2012) 

Cr. 

1184, 

States 

v. 

Raj 

(RJH) 

09 

Rajaratnam, 

Insider  Dealing  Tribunal  v.  Shek  Mei  Ling, 

                                                           
55 United States v. Nacchio (2009) (10th Cir.) 573 F.3d 1062, available at <https://casetext.com/case/us-v-nacchio-
11>. 
56  United 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/infdco20120207b98.xml>. 
57  The 
(1999)  2  HKCFAR  205,  available  at 
<https://www.hongkongcaselaw.com/the-insider-dealing-tribunal-v-shek-mei-ling/>;  HKSAR  v.  Du  Jun  (2009) 
DCCC787/2008, available <https://www.hongkongcaselaw.com/hksar-v-du-jun-2/>. 
58 See, clauses (d) and (e) of Section 12A and Section 15G of the SEBI Act. 
59 See, The Insider Trading Sanctions Act, 1984 and the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act, 1988 
which 
at 
<https://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/98/hr559/text> 
<https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/STATUTE-
102/pdf/STATUTE-102-Pg4677.pdf>  respectively;  Rules  10b-5,  10b5-1  and  10b5-2  of  the  General  Rules  And 
Regulations, Securities Exchange Act Of 1934, Subpart A—Rules and Regulations Under the Securities Exchange 
Act  of  1934  at  17  C.F.R.  (Code  of  Federal  Regulations)  available  at  <https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-
idx?SID=6172e3128b122545ee8bec9d0e5d519d&mc=true&tpl=/ecfrbrowse/Title17/17cfr240_main_02.tpl>.  
60  For  application  of  US  law  by  Indian  authorities,  see  SAT  order  dated 08.10.2012  in  the  matter  of  V  K  Kaul  v 
Adjudicating Officer, available at <https://indiacorplaw.in/wp-content/uploads/2012/12/1349843808090.pdf>. 

Securities 

available 

at 

inter 

alia 

Exchange 

Act, 

1934, 

available 

amended 

the 

and 

 

 
Page | - 231 -  

 

 

innovative approaches which are already well settled in the USA insider trading 

law61; 

 

2.  Even the anti-fraud provisions in both the jurisdictions are similar, rather it may 

be  appropriate  to  state  that  the  wordings  of  Section  12A  of  the  SEBI  Act  are 

borrowed from the provisions of Section 10b of the USA Securities Exchange Act, 

193462 and Rule 10b-5 of the SEC Rules.63 

3.  The concept of securities market price being a reflection of the ‘information’ being 

assimilated has universal application across various jurisdiction. The methods for 

quantification used by various regulators reflect this underlying principle. This is 

also reflected in the approach adopted by the Indian Supreme Court in the Trojan 

case. It is also reflected in the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 

2015 which inter alia require, ‘the compliance officer taking into account various 

factors  including  the  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  in  question 

becoming generally available and being capable of assimilation by the market, 

                                                           
61  See  Salman  v.  U.S.,  137  S.  Ct.  420  (2016),  available  at  <https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/16pdf/15-
628_m6ho.pdf> where the U. S. Supreme Court held that the “personal benefit” to a tipper that is required to establish 
liability for insider trading can consist of the “gift” of that material, non-public information to a family member or 
friend. As such, the Court affirmed the “personal benefit” analysis articulated in the landmark 1983 case Dirks v. SEC, 
463 U. S. 646 (1983), available at <https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/463/646/case.html>. Also See SEC v. 
Contorinis, US Court of Appeals, No. 12-1723 (2d Cir. 2014) upholding tipper liable to disgorge amount equal to the 
profit 
at 
<https://www.dlapiper.com/~/media/files/insights/publications/2014/02/sec-v-
contorinis.pdf?la=en&hash=2AB6FF5A06DE029A72FC92CC2E4E9B8CD8F1155F  >.  The  Court  inter  alia  held 
that, - 

available 

traded, 

person 

made 

who 

the 

by 

“[i]n SEC v.  Warde we held that, in the determination of a disgorgement amount, “[a] tippee’s gains are 
attributable to the tipper, regardless whether benefit accrues to the tipper.” 151 F.3d 42, 49 (2d Cir. 1998). 
That principle has deep roots in parallel civil remedial structures. For example, in Elkind v. Ligget & Myers, 
Inc., 635 F.2d 156, 165 (2d Cir. 1980), we concluded that “[t]rades by tippees are attributed to the tipper” in 
determining liability for damages, and in SEC v. Texas Gulf Sulphur Co., 446 F.2d 1301, 1308 (2d Cir. 1971), 
the foundational case for insider trading liability, we required a tipper to make common law civil restitution 
“for the profits derived by his tippees.”” 

pp 

at 

See 

62 
<http://legcounsel.house.gov/Comps/Securities%20Exchange%20Act%20Of%201934.pdf>. 
63 See the General Rules  And  Regulations,  Securities Exchange  Act Of 1934, Subpart A—Rules and  Regulations 
Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 at 17 C.F.R. (Code of Federal Regulations) §240.10b-5: Employment of 
manipulative 
<https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-
idx?SID=6172e3128b122545ee8bec9d0e5d519d&mc=true&node=se17.4.240_110b_65&rgn=div8> 

deceptive 

available 

available 

devices., 

89-91, 

and 

at 

 

 
Page | - 232 -  

 

 

which  in  any  event  shall  not  be  earlier  than  forty-eight  hours  after  the 

information becomes generally available.’ 

 

4.   The issue of quantification of gains made and losses caused arises only after a guilt 

determination. The defaulter is the only person aware of the actual gains made by 

him  and  the  quasi-judicial  authorities  are  only  making  a  ‘best  judgment’ 

assessment  of  the  gains  made  and  losses  caused.  As  such,  due  to  the  dynamic 

nature of the market, only an approximation can be made, uncertainty is inherent 

in  the  act  of  the  defaulter  for  which  the  defaulter  himself  must  bear  the  risk  of 

uncertainty.64  The  authorities  can  make  an  assessment  only  on  the  basis  of 

available information and is not required to make an exact assessment of the losses 

caused  and  gains  made.65  Similar  principles  should  be  applied  to  assessments 

made by the Board as well; 

5.  The  authorities  conducting  investigation,  inquiry,  audit  and  inspection  have  to 

look  closely  in  order  to  be  able  to  ascertain  the  relevant  factors  for  the 

quantification of gains made and losses caused in case of negligence and director 

related defaults66, such as related party transactions or where they have by their 

acts, directly or indirectly, adversely affected the company and its investors;  

                                                           
64 SEC v Drexel Burnham Lambert, Inc., 837 F. Supp. 587 (S.D.N.Y. 1993), aff’d sub nom., SEC v Posner, 16 F.3d 
530 (2nd Cir. 1994), cert. denied, 513 U.S. 1077 (1995) quoting SEC v Bilzerian 814 F. Supp. 116, 121 (S.D.N.Y. 
1993), available at <https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/district-courts/FSupp/837/587/2377774/>: 

179 

(2d. 

Cir. 

2007), 

available 

F.3d 

170, 

Rutkoske, 

SEC 

v 

“Since it is difficult in many cases to separate ‘legal’ from illegal profit… it is proper to assume that all 
profits gained while the defendants were in violation of the law constituted ill-gotten gains.” (emphasis 
supplied) 
See,  U.S. 

65 
at 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/1292285/united-states-v-rutkoske/> ; U.S. v Zolp, 479 F.3d 715, 720-21 (9th 
Cir. 2007), available at <https://law.resource.org/pub/us/case/reporter/F3/479/479.F3d.715.05-50822.html>; U.S. v. 
Berger, 587 F.3d 1038, 1045 (9th Cir. 2009), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/1345996/united-
states-v-berger/> 
at 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/20041589378f3d121111462>; and SEC v Svoboda, 409 F. Supp. 2d 331 (S.D.N.Y. 
2006), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2404810/ussec-v-svoboda/>. 
66  SEC  v  Church  of  God 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2487525/ussec-v-church-exten-of-church-of-church-of-god-inc/> 
(balancing  fact  that  the  defendants  provided  ‘real  and  valuable  services’  with  the  fact  that,  but  for  the  fraud,  the 
business would have collapsed earlier and they would not have been employed and ordering each defendant to disgorge 
one-half of base-salary for one year for which the business operated.); SEC v Drexel Burnham Lambert, Inc., 837 F. 
Supp. 587 (S.D.N.Y. 1993), aff’d sub nom., SEC v Posner, 16 F.3d 530 (2nd Cir. 1994), cert. denied, 513 U.S. 1077 
(1995) (disgorgement of all compensation paid to officers where fraud enabled defendants to gain control of company 
 
Page | - 233 -  

Ind  2005), 

Inc.,  429  F.  Supp.  2d  1045 

(S.D. 

available 

at 

F.3d 

1211 

(11th 

Cir. 

2004), 

Calvo, 

378 

available 

506 

v 

; 

 

 

 

6.  There is no one universally applicable way of quantification and each method has 

its  defects  and  advantages  depending  on  the  factual  matrix  in  which  it  may  be 

applied67,  thus  wherever  possible  multiple  calculations  should  be  made  by  the 

investigation,  inquiry,  audit  and  inspection  authorities  for  consideration  of 

alternatives  during  proceedings  under  securities  laws,  including  settlement  and 

the most approximate and appropriate one may be selected. E.g. the US Sentencing 

Guidelines68 inter alia notes the possibility of alternative methods in respect of the 

quantification of losses due to fraud in securities markets, as follows, - 

“(ix)  Fraudulent  Inflation  or  Deflation  in  Value  of  Securities  or 

Commodities.—In a case involving the fraudulent inflation or deflation in 

the value of a publicly traded security or commodity, the court in determining 

loss  may  use  any  method  that  is  appropriate  and  practicable  under  the 

circumstances. One such method the court may consider is a method under 

which  the  actual  loss  attributable  to the  change in  value  of  the  security  or 

commodity is the amount determined by—  

(I) calculating the difference between the average price of the security or 

commodity during the period that the fraud occurred and the average price 

of the security or commodity during the 90-day period after the fraud was 

disclosed to the market, and  

value 

to 

the 

at 

available 

company’.), 

                                                           
and place themselves in highly-paid positions; court rejected ‘any contention’ that the defendants’ services were of 
‘real 
<https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/district-
courts/FSupp/837/587/2377774/>; SEC v Alpha Telecomms., Inc 187 Supp. 1250 (D. Ore. 2002), aff’d, 350 F. 2d 
1034  (9th  Cir.  2003),  available  at  <https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/district-courts/FSupp2/187/1250/2310241/> 
(disgorgement of all  wages,  loans and compensation paid by the company to the defaulter  who ran the collective 
investment scheme). 
67 See, J Duncan, Recalculating “Loss” in Securities Fraud, (2013) 3 Harvard Business Law Review 257, available 
at <http://www.hblr.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/HLB202_crop.pdf>. 
68  Sentencing  Guidelines 
at  <https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/guidelines-
manual/2016/GLMFull.pdf>; See Committee’s Report on Settlement Mechanism, pp 27-28 for detailed understanding 
of  the  US  Sentencing  Guidelines,  available  at  <https://www.sebi.gov.in/reports/reports/aug-2018/report-on-
settlement-mechanism-by-the-high-level-committee-to-review-the-enforcement-and-settlement-
mechanism_39967.html>. 

p  99, 

available 

 

 
Page | - 234 -  

 

(II) multiplying the difference in average price by the number of shares 

out-standing.69  

 

In determining whether the amount so determined is a reasonable estimate 

of  the  actual  loss  attributable  to  the  change  in  value  of  the  security  or 

commodity, the court may consider, among other factors, the extent to which 

the amount so determined includes significant changes in value not resulting 

from  the  offense  (e.g.,  changes  caused  by  external  market  forces,  such  as 

changed  economic  circumstances,  changed  investor  expectations,  and  new 

industry- specific or firm-specific facts, conditions, or events).” 

 

The  Committee  notes  the  similarities,  with  understandable  deviations,  in  the  USA 

approach relating to quantification of loss to investors in cases of fraud and the manner 

of quantification adopted by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in the matter of Trojan 

&  Co.  Ltd  v  R.  M.  N.  N.  Nagappa  Chettiar70  and  is  hopeful  that  with  the  express 

recognition  of  class  action  suits  under  Section  245  the  Companies  Act,  2013  and  the 

Commercial  Courts,  Commercial  Division  and  Commercial  Appellate  Division  of  High 

Courts Act, 2015 which inter alia deal with disputes relating to shareholder agreements, 

agreements  for  sale  of  goods,71  subscription  and  investment  agreements  pertaining  to 

financial services and related contracts of agency, there will be substantial development 

within India on these aspects.72  

 

 

                                                           
69  Out-standing  shares  is  a  market  term  used  for  calculating  earnings  per  share  and  market  capitalization;  see 
<https://www.nasdaq.com/article/shares-outstanding-cm550633>  and  <https://www.upcounsel.com/outstanding-
shares>. 
70 AIR 1953 SC 235, 1953 SCR 780. 

71 Securities are goods, See clause (7) of section 2 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930. 

72  Law  Commission  of  India’s  188th  Report  on Proposals  for  Constitution  of  Hi-Tech  Fast  –  Track  Commercial 
Divisions In High Courts, p 146, available at <http://lawcommissionofindia.nic.in/reports/188th%20report.pdf>:  

“In fact, in several cases, the National Consumer Commission has refused to entertain cases for justifiable 
reasons such as for example, where serious issues of fraud, cheating or conspiracy are involved. Such 
cases can still be filed in the High Court and brought before the proposed Commercial Division.” 

 

 
Page | - 235 -  

 

 

II.  KEY RECOMMENDATIONS AND RATIONALE 

The Committee has examined the existing global approaches in detail and recommends 

the  issuance  of  non-mandatory  public  guidelines.  In  this  Chapter,  the  Committee 

examines  the  key  recommendations  in  the  proposed  guidelines  and  the  rationale  for 

them. 

 

1.  NEED FOR GUIDANCE 

 

The  present  situation,  where  there  is  no  public  guidance,  has  resulted  in  limited 

quantification of the factors indicated in Section 15J of the SEBI Act, Section 19I of the 

Depositories Act and Section 23J of the SCRA.  

 

Securities  laws  impose  the  burden  of  quantifying  these  factors  on  the  quasi-judicial 

authorities and not on the fact-finding authorities, though from a practical point of view 

the  quasi-judicial  authorities  are  primarily  dependent  on  the  facts  unearthed  by  the 

investigating authorities. It is the quasi-judicial authority that should be independently 

satisfied whether these factors  are indeed quantifiable or not. Since,  the Committee is 

mindful of the challenges faced by the officers and Members of the Board in exercise of 

their quasi-judicial functions, in view of which appropriate guidance must be issued to 

the investigation, inquiry, inspection and audit authorities who recommend action to the 

Board so as to enable them to include various factors and indicate the methods required 

for quantification for levy of penalty or to order disgorgement after taking into account, 

factors such as profit made, loss caused and the repetitive nature of the default.  

 

However, quantification as a process cannot exclude the noticee against whom action is 

proposed,  doing  so  will  only  serve  to  give  grounds  of  appeal  and  lengthen  the  quasi-

judicial process.  

 

In the Report on Settlement, this Committee discussed how the USA Sentencing Reform 

Act  of  1984  (SRA)  which  went  into  effect  on  November  1,  1987,  served  as  the  legal 

 

 
Page | - 236 -  

 

foundation  for  the  issue  of  non-mandatory  public  guidelines  for  federal  courts  in  the 

exercise of their functions. This brought in a huge amount of certainty for the prosecutors 

as well as the accused, and also served as the basis of having a successful plea bargaining 

system  which  has  worked  better  than  that  in  India.  These  guidelines  which  create  a 

framework for sentencing without taking away the discretion of the Judge to deviate for 

reasons to  be recorded  were  upheld  by  the  USA Supreme Court  in  Mistretta  v  United 

States.73  

 

Even Self-Regulatory Organizations such as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, 

(FINRA) have developed publicly available Sanction Guidelines74. FINRA published the 

FINRA Sanction Guidelines ("Guidelines") in 1993 so that the members and associated 

persons could become familiar with the disciplinary sanctions that could result from the 

typical securities industry rule violations.  

 

The Sanction Guidelines apply to all formal FINRA disciplinary actions, whether settled 

or  fully  litigated.  FINRA's  adjudicatory  bodies—Hearing  Panels  and  the  National 

Adjudicatory  Council  (NAC)—rely  on  FINRA's  Sanction  Guidelines  to  determine 

appropriate remedial sanctions. The Sanction Guidelines state in clear and unequivocal 

language that they are intended to be guidelines and that they are not absolute. In both- 

settled cases and litigated matters, depending on the facts and circumstances of each case, 

the  sanctions  imposed  may  fall  outside  the  ranges  recommended  in  the  Sanction 

Guidelines. Fines on a “per violation” basis, were the default option under the Sanction 

Guidelines.  Since  1998,  the  revised  general  principles  applicable  to  all  sanction 

determinations have stated that an aggregation of violations may be appropriate for the 

purpose of determining sanctions if the violative conduct was unintentional or negligent, 

did not result in injury to public investors, or the violations resulted from a single systemic 

problem  or  a  cause  that  has  been  corrected.  With  these  revisions,  the  NAC  clarified 

FINRA's existing policy on the aggregation or "batching" of violations for the purpose of 

                                                           
73 488 U.S. 361 (1989), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/112173/mistretta-v-united-states/>. 
74 
<http://www.finra.org/sites/default/files/Sanctions_Guidelines.pdf>. 

Guidelines 

available 

Latest 

FINRA 

Sanction 

at 

 

 
Page | - 237 -  

 

sanctions by highlighting when it is appropriate to consider sanctions on a "per violation" 

basis and when aggregation is acceptable.75 

 

In the Report on Settlement Mechanism, the Committee had adopted the device of non-

mandatory  statutory  guidance  in  respect  of  the  factor  relating  to  ‘repetitive  nature  of 

default’ by recommending a new regulation76 (extant regulation 32) which declares the 

relevance of Schedule II of the settlement regulations which maintains the discretion of 

the quasi-judicial authorities in deciding how a repetitive default may be treated and how 

the monies due may be quantified. The Committee’s Report on Settlement Mechanism 

provides guidance in respect of the factor- ‘repetitive nature of the default’; this report 

concerns the remaining two statutory factors. 

 

 

It may be noted that the Hon’ble Supreme Court in its recent order dated 28.02.2019 in 

the  matter  of  Adjudicating  Officer,  SEBI  v  Bhavesh  Pabari77  has  also  interpreted  the 

factor relating to ‘repetitive nature of default’ in line with the recommendations of this 

Committee and inter alia held as follows,- 

“13. There is a distinction between a continuing offence and a repeat offence. The 

continuing offence is a one which is of a continuous nature as distinguished from 

one  which  is  committed  once  and  for  all.  The  term  “continuing  offence”  was 

explained  and  elucidated  by  giving  several  illustrations  in  State  of  Bihar  vs. 

Deokaran  Nenshi  &  Ors78.  In  case  of  continuing  offence,  the  liability  continues 

2019 

                                                           
75  For  a  more  detailed  discussion,  See  May  2018  Revisions  to  the  Sanction  Guidelines  –  FAQ,  available  at 
<http://www.finra.org/industry/revisions-sanction-guidelines-faq>. 
76  Regulation  32  of  the  proposed  draft  Regulations  in  the  Report  on  Settlement  Mechanism,  p  161,  available  at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/reports/reports/aug-2018/report-on-settlement-mechanism-by-the-high-level-committee-
to-review-the-enforcement-and-settlement-mechanism_39967.html>. 
77 
<https://www.supremecourtofindia.nic.in/supremecourt/2013/36291/36291_2013_Judgement_28-Feb-2019.pdf >. 
78 AIR 1973 SC 908, 1973(3) SCR 1004: the Court examined whether failure to file annual return at the due date was 
a continuing offence or an offence completed by non-filing on the due date. Held, that such non-compliance was not 
a  continuing  offence.  It  was  held  that  a  continuing  offence  is  one  which  is  susceptible  of  continuance  and  is 
distinguishable from the one which is committed once and for all. The distinction between the two kinds of offences 
is between an act or omission which constitutes an offence once and for all and an act or omission which continues, 
and therefore, constitutes a fresh offence every time or occasion on which it continues. In the case of a continuing 
offence, there is thus the ingredient of continuance of the offence which is absent in the case of an offence which takes 
place when an act or omission is committed once and for all.  

available 

at 

(3) 

SCALE 

447, 

 

 
Page | - 238 -  

 

 

until the  rule or  its  requirement  is  obeyed  or  complied  with.  On  every  occasion 

when  disobedience  or  noncompliance  occurs  and  reoccurs,  there  is  an  offence 

committed. Continuing offence constitutes a fresh offence every time or occasion 

it  occurs.  In  Union  of  India  &  Anr.  Vs.  Tarsem  Singh,79  continuing  offence  or 

default  in  service  law  was  explained  as  a  single  wrongful  act  which  causes  a 

continuing injury. A recurring or successive wrong, on the other hand, are those 

which  occur  periodically  with  each  wrong  giving  rise  to  a  distinct  and  separate 

cause of action. We have made reference to this legal position in view of clause (c) 

of Section 15J of the SEBI Act which refers to repetitive nature of default and not a 

continuing default. The word “repetitive” as used therein would refer to a recurring 

or  successive  default.  (emphasis  supplied)  This  factum  has  to  be  taken  into 

consideration while deciding upon the quantum of penalty.”  

It must be noted that there is nothing unique in having non-mandatory public guidelines 

through a non-statutory or statutory device for the exercise of quasi-judicial process as 

long  as  discretion  is  preserved.  Guidelines  for  judicial  officers  exist  in  various 

jurisdictions,  not  just  USA.80  The  argument  that  guidelines  somehow  restrict  the 

discretion of authorities is unwarranted and merely an excuse used by miscreants to take 

advantage of the loopholes afforded by the present system. Codification of the possible 

methods  through  public  non-mandatory  guidelines  will  ensure  that  quasi-judicial  and 

                                                           
Contra see Bhagirath Kanoria v. State of Madhya Pradesh, AIR 1984 SC 1688, 1985 (1) SCR 626, where the Hon'ble 
Supreme Court held that the imposition of penalty not confined to the first default, but with reference to the continued 
default is obviously on the footing that non-compliance with the obligation of making return is an infraction as long 
as the default continued. Without sanction of law, no penalty is impossible with reference to the defaulting conduct. 
The position that penalty is imposable not only  for the first default, but as long as the default continues and such 
penalty is to be calculated at a prescribed rate on monthly basis is indicative of the legislative intention in unmistakable 
terms that as long as the assessee does not comply with the requirements of law, he continues to be guilty of the 
infraction and exposes himself to the penalty provided by law.  
The later Supreme Court decision in Bhagirath Kanoria v. State of Madhya Pradesh, has accordingly ruled that the 
decision in State of Bihar v. Deokaran Nenshi, 'must be confined' to such cases only, that is, cases where such default 
in submitting the return has been made penal, but the penal liability has not been continued so long as the default 
continues, such as withholding payment after due date. 
79 (2008) 8 SCC 648. 
80 Several jurisdictions have Sentencing Guidelines- USA, UK, Uganda (judicial), and Hong Kong (judicial). See The 
Law  Library  of  Congress,  Report  on  Sentencing  Guidelines  (2014)  <https://www.loc.gov/law/help/sentencing-
guidelines/index.php>.  Some  countries  have  Guideline 
judgments:  Canada,  Australia,  New  Zealand: 
<http://www.judiciary.go.ug/files/downloads/PRINCIPALS%20OF%20SENTENCINT%20A%20GLOBAL%20RE
GIONAL%20%20NATIONAL%20PERSPECTIVE%20final.pdf>. 

 

 
Page | - 239 -  

 

investigating officers can utilise the same in furtherance of their public duties. In respect 

of  quantification,  the  Committee  recommends  an  indirect  manner  of  quantification 

whereby the burden of applying the principles in the first instance will be placed on the 

fact-finding authorities and not the quasi-judicial authorities. 

 

RECOMMENDATION: In respect of quantification of profit made and loss caused to the 

investors  as  a  result  of  the  default,  the  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  public  non-

mandatory  guidelines  may  be  issued  for  the  benefit  of  all  stakeholders,  which  can  be 

constantly revised and updated with ease.  

 

 

2.  WHETHER  QUANTIFICATION  IS  NECESSARY  IN  EVERY  INSTANCE  OF  QUASI-

JUDICIAL PROCESS? 

Though Section 15J of the SEBI Act, Section 19I of the Depositories Act and Section 23J 

of the SCRA are couched in mandatory terms, the following need to be considered, - 

 

i. 

It  may  be  noted  that  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  in  its  recent  order  dated 

28.02.2019 in the matter of Adjudicating Officer, SEBI v Bhavesh Pabari81 has not 

considered  the  failure  to  quantify  in  each  and  every  case  as  fatal  to  the  levy  of 

penalty. The court inter alia held that,- 

“10. The above apart, the circumstances enumerated in clauses (a), (b) and 

(c) of Section 15J of the SEBI Act may have no relevance and may never arise 

in case of contraventions contemplated by certain provisions of the SEBI Act, 

for  instance  Section  15A,  15B  or  15C  of  the  SEBI  Act.  Failure  to  furnish 

information, return, etc.; failure to enter into agreement  with clients; and 

failure to redress investors’ grievances cannot give rise to the circumstances 

set out in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Section 15J. 

… 

                                                           
81 
(3) 
<https://www.supremecourtofindia.nic.in/supremecourt/2013/36291/36291_2013_Judgement_28-Feb-2019.pdf >. 

available 

2019 

SCALE 

447, 

at 

 

 
Page | - 240 -  

 

12. At this stage, we must also deal with and reject the argument raised by 

some of the private appellants that the conditions stipulated in clauses (a) to 

(c) of Section 15J are mandatory conditions which must be read into Sections 

15A to 15HA in the sense that unless the conditions specified in clauses (a) 

to (c) are satisfied, penalty cannot be imposed by the Adjudicating Officer 

under the substantive provisions of Sections 15A to 15HA of the SEBI Act. 

The argument is too farfetched to be accepted. Section 15J of the SEBI Act 

enumerates  by  way  of  illustration(s)  the  factors  which  the  Adjudicating 

Officer  should  take  into  consideration  for  determining  the  quantum  of 

penalty imposable. The imposition of penalty depends upon satisfaction of 

the substantive provisions as contained in Sections 15A to Section 15HA of 

the SEBI Act [and not the provisions of Section 15J](supplied).” 

 

ii. 

Further,  the  statutory  language  is  very  clear,  it  refers  to  taking  note  of  the 

quantification of gains and losses caused to the investors as result of the default 

along with taking into account the repetitive nature of the default. The focus is on 

the default and not on the defaulter.82 In case of loss the statute is explicit that the 

loss may be calculated in respect of an individual investor or a group of investors. 

Further, in cases involving more than one defaulter, it may not be ideal to pin point 

how much loss is attributable to a particular defaulter. While it is tempting to do 

so, it amounts to applying impossible equitable considerations between defaulters; 

those  who  come  with  unclean  hands  have  no  right  to  equity  until  after  the  full 

amount has been paid by all or any one of them.83 In cases where more than one 

See 

the 

on 

                                                           
82 
Committee’s 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/reports/reports/aug-2018/report-on-settlement-mechanism-by-the-high-level-committee-
to-review-the-enforcement-and-settlement-mechanism_39967.html>. 
83 See Dharni Dhar and Ors v Chandra Shekhar  & Ors,  AIR 1951 All 774, discussing contribution by joint tort-
feasors and its applicability in India depending on the facts and circumstances of each case: 

Settlement  Mechanism, 

Report 

available 

at 

p 

27, 

“The rule [of Merrywhether v Nixon (1799) 8 T. R. 186: 16 R. R. 810 : 101 E. R. 1337] (supplied) was thus 
modified and came to be stated in these words : 

"No person who has been guilty of fraud or any other form of wilful wrong-doing, and has been made 
liable in damages, has any right of contribution or indemnity against any other person who was a joint 
wrong-doer with him….” 

 
Page | - 241 -  

 

 

person  abets  a  fraud,  the  default  that  caused  a  loss  or  resulted  in  a  profit  is  a 

composite whole and need not be broken up for considering the profit or loss and 

the liability is to be considered on a joint and several basis. The Committee will 

discuss this aspect further later in this Report.  In case of  fraudulent and unfair 

trade practices, even the persons who abet the fraudulent and unfair trade practice 

are covered under the SEBI Act, 1992 and the SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and 

Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities  Market)  Regulations,  2003,  which 

defines ‘fraud’, provides that the penalty is directly linked to the profit arising out 

of  such  practices.  Especially,  where  the  person  is  part  of  a  fraudulent  scheme, 

artifice or device, then such scheme or artifice or device may be considered as a 

singular composite default for the purpose of quantification of illegal gains and/or 

loss rather than separate defaults and the illegal profit has to be calculated on a 

holistic basis rather than an individual basis, though different persons may have 

had different roles to play. 

 

iii.  There is no direct co-relation between the charging sections of securities laws for 

imposing monetary penalties or fines, and the loss caused to investors as a result 

of the default. This is due to the distinct nature of the securities markets; the loss 

caused to investors by a defaulter may not be commensurate to the actual profit 

made  by  him.  Issuer  financial  frauds  may  create  huge  investor  losses  when  the 

artificial high price of an issuer’s stock plummets with the public dissemination of 

information about the issuer’s actual financial condition. In fact, securities laws 

violations may cause investor losses that dwarf, by several orders of magnitude, 

any profit that the defaulters may have made. In a non-zero sum game scenario, 

                                                           

66. Where a civil wrong is committed jointly by certain persons as against another, they purge themselves 
of the consequences of the wrong when they repair the damage caused to that person. It cannot, therefore, 
be said that the hands of tort-feasor  who has repaired the damage are unclean. Indeed  the hands of the 
person who has not yet contributed his share of the loss are unclean and there is no justice in denying the 
relief to the person who has repaired the whole of the damage caused by the action of both of them."  

Further see Kushro S. Gandhi & Ors v N.A. Gajdar & Ors, 1970 (SC) AIR 1468, 1969 SCR (2) 959, holding that the 
recovery of the entire liability could be made from all or any of the persons jointly liable before they rely on accord 
and satisfaction without going into the correctness of Dharni Dhar and Ors v Chandra Shekhar & Ors, AIR 1951 All 
774. 

 

 
Page | - 242 -  

 

 

 

linking penalty directly to the loss caused to investors could cause the penalty to 

be excessive and beyond the paying capacity of any defaulter. It is for this reason 

that penalties under securities laws is not a multiple of loss caused to investors. 

Further, SEBI does not have the power of directing compensation; but loss caused 

to  investors  is  not  totally  ignored,  it  is  used  only  for  the  purpose  of  guidance, 

between the minimum and maximum ranges permitted by law, which may also be 

tied to profit. The Committee is of the view that loss co-relation is indirect and for 

guidance only. When imposing penalties, it is more appropriate in cases of joint 

and several liabilities or in case of the main accused, rather than for each and 

every individual involved, unless it is a serious violation, and for considering the 

amount of penalty to be levied within the range provided by law. It is well settled 

that SEBI has no power to order loss compensation; such jurisdiction is vested with 

the ordinary civil courts and company courts, as the case may be. 

 

iv.  Quantification  of  the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage, 

wherever  quantifiable, as  a result of the default is  a different matter altogether. 

Except  in  case  of  fraudulent  and  unfair  trade  practices,  insider  trading,  non-

disclosure of acquisition of shares and takeovers and excess brokerage charged by 

a broker, there is no direct co-relation in respect of any other monetary penalties 

specified  in  the  statute  with  the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair 

advantage as a result of the default. In case of criminal fines, there is no direct co-

relation in respect of any kind of default even if it is one of the four categories for 

which penalties have a direct co-relation to profit. As in loss quantification, similar 

issues  arise  in  respect  of  quantification  of  profit  when  quantifying  for  each  and 

every individual involved. 

v.  Quantification may not be required where the penalty is sufficiently large enough 

to negate any gains that the defaulter may have otherwise made. This can be done 

in  cases  where  the  default  is  repetitive  by  taking  into  account  the  relevant 

principles indicated in the Settlement Regulations.  

 

 
Page | - 243 -  

 

vi. 

Further,  disgorgement  is  a  remedy  which  is  linked  to  gains  made,  hence  loss 

quantification is not always relevant. Since the securities laws violations are not 

always a ‘zero’ sum game, there usually arises a difference between disgorgement 

of the unjust enrichment resulting from the default and compensation for the legal 

damages  caused.  An  investor  may  be  liable  to  receive  monies  in  case  of  unjust 

enrichment through the remedy of disgorgement84 or receive compensation in case 

of legal damages. Where the two remedies are not commensurate to each other, 

the Board’s power is limited to restitution of the unjust enrichment through the 

remedy  of  disgorgement  made  rather  than  directing  compensation  of  loss.  The 

Committee has explained the difference between restitution and compensation in 

the draft Regulation 138 of the proposed Recovery Regulations. 

 

vii.  Quantification of loss to investors may not be required where the default is a victim 

less default85 (such as pure vanilla86 insider trading where there is no proximate 

and directly harmed person who suffers legal damages) or has no direct co-relation 

with the default (where there is break in causation). 

 

                                                           
84 Banque Financière de la Cité v Parc (Battersea) Ltd and Ors; House of Lords, [1998] 1 All ER 737, [1998] 2 WLR 
475, [1998] UKHL 7, [1999] AC 221; available at <https://www.bailii.org/uk/cases/UKHL/1998/7.html>: per Lord 
Steyn "unjust enrichment ranks next to contract and tort as part of the law of obligations. It is an independent source 
of rights and obligations." 
85 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/inadvfdco130826000031>:  

F.Supp.2d 

available 

Gupta, 

349 

(2012), 

United 

States 

at 

v 

Rajat 

904 

“While insider trading may work a huge unfairness on innocent investors, Congress has never treated it as a 
fraud on investors, the Securities Exchange Commission has explicitly opposed any such legislation, and the 
Supreme Court has rejected any attempt to extend coverage of the securities fraud laws on such a theory. See, 
e.g., Chiarella v. United States, 445 U.S. 222, 232-235, 100 S.Ct. 1108, 63 L.Ed.2d 348 (1980). Prosecution 
of insider trading therefore proceeds, as in this case, on one or more theories of defrauding the institution (or 
its shareholders) that owned the information. See, e.g., Dirks v. SEC, 463 U.S. 646, 660-64, 103 S.Ct. 3255, 
77 L.Ed.2d 911 (1983); Carpenter v. U.S., 484 U.S. 19, 25-27, 108 S.Ct. 316, 98 L.Ed.2d 275 (1987). In the 
eye of the law, Gupta's crime was to breach his fiduciary duty of confidentiality to Goldman Sachs; or to put 
it another way, Goldman Sachs, not the marketplace, was the victim of Gupta's crimes as charged.” 

86 Only where insider trading is combined with other delinquent conduct investors may be able to show loss as a result 
of such conduct and claim restitution on the lines of disgorgement. See United States v. Skowron, 839 F. Supp. 2d 
740, 752 (S.D.N.Y. 2012), available at <https://casetext.com/case/united-states-v-skowron>, consisting of an insider 
trading  scheme  and  an  ensuing  cover-up  which  actively  frustrated  its  employer’s  Morgan  Stanley’s  efforts  to  co-
operate  with 
at 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/20021121199fsupp2d92211044>, restitution was awarded to investors in a thinly-
traded stock where insider trading defendant actively encouraged victims to sell shares to him based on insider trading 
information known only to him. 

the  SEC;  United  States  v.  Kline,  199  F.Supp.2d  922 

available 

(2002), 

 

 
Page | - 244 -  

 

RECOMMENDATION:  In  view  of  the  above,  the  Committee  makes  the  following 

recommendations, - 

 

 

 

 

i.  Quantification of profit wherever possible should be done on the basis of the 

composite default and liability should generally be imposed on a joint and 

several basis; 

 

ii.  When imposing liability on an individual basis, quantification may not be 

required where the penalty otherwise imposed is sufficient; 

 

iii.  When imposing penalties, quantification of loss is generally appropriate in 

cases of joint and several liability or in case of the main accused noticee(s) 

rather than for ‘victimless defaults’ or for each and every individual involved 

in the default since apportioning loss between multiple defaulters may be 

even  more  difficult  than  apportioning  illegal  gains.  Further,  there  is  no 

equity between defaulters at time of directing joint disgorgement or joint 

penalties.  It  is  also  relevant  for  considering  the  amount  of  penalty  to  be 

levied within the range provided by law; 

iv. 

Further, in cases where it appears that the loss to the investors and profit 

made out of the default are more or less same, then either profit made or 

loss caused may be calculated using any available methodology. 

3.  WHAT IS THE ‘STANDARD’ TO BE ADOPTED FOR QUANTIFICATION? 

Quantification  of  ‘profits  made’  and  ‘losses  caused’  requires  the  Board  to  examine  the 

behaviour  of  the  defaulter  as  well  as  the  investors  who  may  have  suffered  as  a 

consequence of the default. 

 

STANDARD OF THE COMPLIANT MAN: The defaulter’s behaviour has to be compared vis-

à-vis the behaviour of a person who complies with securities laws. The monetary and non-

 

 
Page | - 245 -  

 

monetary benefits received by a defaulter has to be compared with the benefits received 

by  the  compliant  man.  Prima  facie,  the  excess  represents  the  unlawful  gains  of  the 

defaulter.  However,  this  simple  formulation  can  sometimes  require  some  complex 

computation to quantify the gains. In cases involving sale of securities, it matters whether 

the securities were purchased during the course of (or immediately before) the violation 

or sometime before. In the former case, it is easy to identify the gains using the difference 

in price, since the gains are directly tied to the unlawful activity. Whereas in the latter 

case,  pre-existing  gains  that  are  legal  need  to  be  separated  from  the  gains  tied  to  the 

period  of  the  unlawful  activity.  Similar  issues  arise  when  securities  which  have  been 

manipulated are susceptible to movement on account of general market movement. Such 

movements affect all persons equally. Such movements may inflate or depress the profit 

of the defaulter in the same way as they would affect any investor. In order to estimate 

the profit resulting from a default, it may at times be important to differentiate, wherever 

possible, the profit resulting from general market movements and those resulting from 

the  default.  When  the  monies  involved  are  large,  then  it  is  beneficial  to  use  complex 

statistical methods such as those used by securities regulators world-wide to differentiate 

between legal gains and unlawful gains as the legal gains may be appreciably large enough 

to be estimated, provided the defaulter supplies the necessary information. 

 

STANDARD OF THE REASONABLE INVESTOR: Securities markets operate differently from 

the markets of other goods and services. India follows a disclosure based regime similar 

to that of many developed jurisdictions. These markets are presumed to function on the 

lines  of  an  efficient  market  hypothesis  where  the  market  assimilates  all  available 

information into the price of the security. An investor who trades securities at the price 

set by an impersonal market does so by relying on the integrity of that price. Since most 

publicly available information is reflected in the market price, an investor's reliance on 

any public material misrepresentations may be presumed for various purposes. Securities 

market jurisprudence is built around the concept of ‘fraud-on-the-market’ i.e. in an open 

and developed securities market, the price of a company's securities are determined by 

the available material information regarding the company and its business. Misleading 

statements will therefore defraud the investors of securities even if the investors do not 

 

 
Page | - 246 -  

 

directly rely on the misstatements. The misstatements affect the price of the security, and 

thus defraud investors who rely on the price which is an indication of the security’s value 

and all relevant information relating to that security. The causal connection between the 

defaulter’s  fraud  and  the  investors’  purchase  of  a  security  in  such  a  case  is  no  less 

significant than in case of direct reliance on misrepresentations. In both cases, defaulter’s 

fraudulent  statements  or  omissions  cause  investors  to  purchase  securities  which  they 

would not have purchased absent defaulter’s misstatements and/or omissions. Thus in 

securities  laws  cases  SEBI  is  not  required  to  prove  direct  reliance  by  investors  on 

defaulter’s  misrepresentations  but  can  satisfy  its  burden  of  proof  on  the  element  of 

causation by showing that the defaulter made material misrepresentations and it will be 

presumed that the misrepresentations occasioned an increase in the security’s value that, 

in turn, induced the investors to purchase a security, though it may very well be that the 

investors never bothered to take note of the disclosures made on the exchange or the bulky 

prospectuses  or  that  they  were  guided  by  astrological  considerations  or  were  just 

investing at a whim. The investors are presumed to have behaved in a reasonable way. 

The standard of a reasonable investor was recognised by the US Supreme Court in several 

matters.87 This has been applied in the context of Indian securities litigation as well88 and 

relied upon by SEBI also.89 

fact 

(An  omitted 

                                                           
87  TSC  Industries,  Inc.  v.  Northway,  Inc.,  426  U.S.  438,  96  S.Ct.  2126,  48  L.Ed.2d  757  (1976),  available  at 
<https://casetext.com/case/tsc-industries-inc-v-northway-
inc?q=426%20U.S.%20438%20&p=1&tab=keyword&jxs=&sort=relevance&type=case> 
is 
material if there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable shareholder would consider it important in deciding how 
to vote. It does not require proof of a substantial likelihood that disclosure of the omitted fact would have caused the 
reasonable  investor  to  change  his  vote,  but  contemplates  a  showing  of  a  substantial  likelihood  that,  under  all  the 
circumstances, the omitted fact would have assumed actual significance in the reasonable shareholder's deliberations.); 
Basic incorporated, et al. v. Max L. Levinson, et al., 485 U.S. 224 (1988) (108 S.Ct. 978, 99 L.Ed.2d 194), available 
at 
<https://casetext.com/case/basic-incorporated-v-
levinson?q=485%20U.S.%20224%20&p=1&tab=keyword&jxs=&sort=relevance&type=case>  (“We  face  here  the 
narrow  question  whether  information  concerning  the  existence  and  status  of  preliminary  merger  discussions  is 
significant  to  the  reasonable  investor's  trading  decision….  We  therefore  find  no  valid  justification  for  artificially 
excluding from the definition of materiality information concerning merger discussions, which would otherwise be 
considered significant to the trading decision of a reasonable investor, merely because agreement-in-principle as to 
price and structure has not yet been reached by the parties or their representatives”). 
88 See In re Pharma Pharmaceuticals Products of India ltd., (2006) 131 Comp Cas 747 (Bom). (2006) 5 CompLJ 282 
Bom; 2006 70 SCL 93 Bom; Maneck-chowk and Ahmedabad Manufacturing Co. Ltd., In re, [1970] 40 Comp Cas 
819. (The petitioner must  prima  facie show that  the scheme is preeminently  fair and reasonable as  a prudent  and 
reasonable shareholder would approve of and not object to.) Also See Miheer H. Mafatlal v Mafatlal Industries Ltd, 
JT 1996 (8) 205 (SC). 
89 SEBI Discussion Paper on review of Clause 36 and related clauses of the equity listing agreement, available at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/1408444809721.pdf>; Also see  Hindustan Lever  Ltd.  v  SEBI,  1998 
 
Page | - 247 -  

 

 

 

While considering the above standards, a few other factors also need to be kept in mind, 

such  as  cases  which  revolve  around  an  omission(s),  such  as  failure  to  give  an 

advertisement  in  respect  of  changes  between  the  draft  offer  documents  and  the  RHP, 

failure to give an open offer, etc. In order to impart seriousness to compliance of laws, it 

is  important  to  consider  the  ‘cost  of  compliance’  avoided  instead  of  imposing  base 

penalties of a few lakhs or thousands. In such cases, the defaulter avoids ‘fixed’ costs such 

as the cost of giving the advertisement or making the open offer. These ‘fixed costs’ can 

be  estimated  based  on  the  prevailing  practices  by  comparison  with  similarly  placed 

compliant  market  participants.  To  these  ‘fixed’  benefits,  there  may  also  be  ‘variable’ 

benefits. In particular, in the case of an open offer, it may be possible that the open offer, 

even if it had been made, it would not have evinced any interest from the investors or it 

may  have  been  partly  or  fully  subscribed;  however,  it  is  clear  that  the  intent  behind 

evading  the  open  offer  obligation  was  the  probability  of  it  being  subscribed.  Since  the 

standard of proof in civil and administrative proceedings is the test of preponderance of 

probability90,  quantification  can  be  based  on  assumptions  that  match  the  intent. 

Quantification of gains becomes difficult in such cases but not impossible. In such cases, 

law permits that a presumption may be made in respect of the ‘common course of natural 

events, human conduct and public and private business’91, having regard to the facts of 

the particular scrip by comparing with similar scrips and open offers, etc. made in the 

past a probable cost may be determined and the noticee may be given an opportunity to 

show why such assumptions adopted may not be correct and some other amount may be 

arrived  at,  e.g.  on  these  very  lines  Table  VI  of  the  Schedule-II  of  the  Settlement 

Regulations inter alia already provide for the Board to consider the ‘probable cost of open 

                                                           
(18) SCL 311 (AA), detailing SEBI’s order dated 11.03.1998. (SEBI  inter alia held that, since information about 
merger would have affected the price of securities and any reasonable investor would have attached importance to 
such an information, non-disclosure of this information to UTI put UTI to distinct disadvantage and prevented it from 
taking an informed decision.) 
90  Adjudicating  Officer, 
<https://www.supremecourtofindia.nic.in/supremecourt/2013/36291/36291_2013_Judgement_28-Feb-2019.pdf>. 
91 See Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, which has been held to be relevant and applicable to proceedings 
under securities laws and applied by the Supreme Court in SIRECL & Ors v SEBI & Anr., order dated 31.08.2012 
available  at  <https://www.sebi.gov.in/enforcement/orders/aug-2012/order-in-the-matter-of-sahara-india-real-estate-
corporation-limited-and-ors-_23665.html>. 

v  Bhavesh  Pabari, 

available 

2019 

(3) 

SEBI 

SCALE 

447, 

at 

 

 
Page | - 248 -  

 

offer  as  recommended  by  the  Corporate  Finance  Department.’  Just  as  independent 

valuers  are  used  for  valuation  of  properties,  costs  may  be  called  from  independent 

merchant bankers using relevant information sought from the noticee to determine the 

probable cost of an open offer. 

 

Similarly, there are omissions where the monies of clients are mixed with own funds to 

satisfy some margin or net-worth requirements. In these cases, the time value of the funds 

so taken or provided, needs to be taken into account with any other attendant profit. 

 

There  are  also  instances  where  a  benefit  may  be  drawn  in  respect  of  legal  and  illegal 

activities,  such  as  salary,  bonuses,  etc.  These  issues  have  also  been  dealt  with  in  the 

Report.  

 

To  the  extent  possible,  the  Board  should  attempt  to  quantify  the  fixed  and  variable 

benefits and losses, though the exact amounts may never be ascertainable with certainty, 

since uncertainty is a necessary feature of any dynamic securities market and investors 

and defaulters are subject to it alike; it is not an advantage or a disadvantage for either. 

Investors and defaulters are willing to subject themselves to market uncertainties while 

making trading decisions for making profits, they must therefore be subjected to the same 

uncertainties when being adjudicated for unlawful activities.  

 

INVESTOR’S RIGHT OF RESTITUTION v LOSS COMPENSATION: The standards are relevant 

for  determining  inter  alia  losses  by  investors,  which  is  only  used  as  a  measure  for 

guidance for determining penalty to be levied rather than for grant of compensation. For 

the purpose of computation of losses to the investors while levying penalties, the investors 

are assumed to have acted in a reasonable manner and thus suffered in a similar manner 

allowing the determination to be made in an approximate manner instead of involving 

the  regulator  in  a  never  ending  inquiry  involving  millions  of  investors  in  every  other 

proceeding. However, it is quite possible that investors may have suffered higher or lower 

losses or even the number of investors affected may be larger since the securities may 

change several hands during the default period. Since the uncertainty is a result of the 

 

 
Page | - 249 -  

 

misconduct  of  the  defaulter  he  bears  the  risk  of  uncertainty  and  cannot  object  to  the 

approximation  method  for  quantification  of  loss.  Hence,  the  methods  of  loss 

quantification recommended in this report are used only to provide guidance in levy of 

penalty  in India (or  to  determine  terms of  imprisonment  and  quantum  of fines in  the 

USA) and not for providing compensation to the investors since that power is anyways 

not  vested with SEBI  but  with the civil court  (or commercial courts)  and the NCLT  in 

certain  instances.  Investors  must  independently  discharge  their  burden  in  the 

proceedings brought by them.92  

 

 

4.  QUANTIFICATION OF LOSS TO INVESTORS  

Quantification of  loss to investors in respect of  a closed group (a PMS, MF, AIF or an 

InVIT, etc.) is easier since the investors partake in a common scheme fund and the details 

of  the  investment  values  and  subsequent  values  are  easily  available.  The  funds  are 

required to calculate NAV on a regular basis and the same can be used. 

 

The  issue  of  multiple  causation  commonly  arises  when  a  defaulter’s  conduct  has 

apparently caused some actual loss to the victim, but the defaulter alleges that but for the 

intervention of unforeseen factors, the loss would have been smaller or would not have 

occurred at all. Consider, for example, a victim who purchased stock based on a defaulter’s 

fraudulent misrepresentations about its value, and then sees the stock price decrease still 

further because of an unforeseen downturn in the stock market after the purchase. From 

one  point  of  view,  the  only  loss  directly  caused  by  the  defendant  in  this  case  is  the 

difference between price the victim paid for the stock based on the misrepresentations by 

the defendant and the intrinsic market value of the stock at the time of purchase. On the 

other hand, but for the defaulter’s blandishments, the victim would not have been holding 

the stock to begin with and thus would not have suffered the additional harm caused by 

the market decline which lowered the realisable value below the intrinsic market value of 

                                                           
92 S.E.C. v. Tambone, 597 F.3d 436, 461 (1st Cir. 2010), available at <https://casetext.com/case/sec-exch-commn-v-
tambone> ([P]rivate litigants face multiple burdens in pleading securities claims. Not only must they meet the standard 
requirement that allegations of fraud be pleaded with particularity, but — unlike the SEC — they also must prove 
reliance on the alleged misrepresentations, economic loss, and loss causation).  

 

 
Page | - 250 -  

 

the stock at the time of purchase.93 Therefore, even in case of multiple causation except 

for  what  can  be  assessed  and  separated  based  on  the  facts  available  to  the  Board,  the 

defaulter bears the responsibility for the default created by the uncertainty of his default 

as his default is the proximate cause.  

 

The need for asserting the importance of disclosures: The year 1992 is important 

because that is the year when the Indian stock market moved towards a disclosure based 

regime. By a disclosure based regime, we mean a regime where the issue of capital and 

trading thereof are considered to be vital and the basis of an ‘efficient securities markets’. 

However,  the  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  we  have  not  really  acknowledged  the 

importance of true and fair disclosures. Even now the violation of disclosure requirements 

is considered ‘technical’ by the regulator as well as the Tribunal in several of their orders 

and pronouncements. Section 34 of the Companies Act, 2013 declares liability for fraud 

for misstatements in prospectus for issue of shares, but there is no such clarity in SEBI 

regulations which governs the issue of various kinds of securities and offer documents.  

 

The Committee is of the view that unless the importance is given to disclosures, overall 

governance  cannot  improve.  Similarly,  giving  importance  to  the  quality  and  timing  of 

disclosures and non-disclosures (other than those contained in offer documents) will also 

enable the regulator to focus on the various modes through which illegitimate profit is 

made  by  various  delinquents.  The  Committee  notes  that  in  the  USA,  wherefrom  the 

disgorgement  remedy  in  the  securities  market  has  been  adopted  has  been  used  for  a 

plethora of violations and not just fraud, because no person can be permitted to profit for 

money had and received on account of any kind of violation of law, in particular,- 

i.  Trading done after disclosure violations. Eg. The SEC requires that purchasers of 

more than 5% of the stock of a publicly traded company file a Schedule 13D within 

10 business days after crossing the 5% threshold. A filer must promptly update the 

Schedule 13D filing to reflect any material change in the facts disclosed, including, 

                                                           
93 Frank O. Bowman, Coping with “Loss”: A Re-Examination of Sentencing Federal Economic Crimes under the 
Guidelines, 
at 
<https://scholarship.law.missouri.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1077&context=facpubs>. 

51  Vanderbilt 

available 

1998 

(3)  Vol. 

Law 

Review 

461, 

p 

524, 

 

 
Page | - 251 -  

 

among other things, the acquisition or disposition of 1% or more of the class of 

securities that are the subject of the filing. A late Schedule 13D filing results in 

disgorgement  because  it  enables  the  purchaser  to  buy  subsequent  shares  more 

cheaply  than  had  he  purchased  them  after  the  stock  price  reflected  the 

disclosure;94 

ii.  Negligence without fraudulent intent. E.g. corporate raider selling stock without 

disclosure after having announced an acquisition and before completion thereof.95 

Negligent  failure  to  adopt  and  implement  policies  and  procedures  reasonably 

designed to prevent violations of securities laws.96  

iii. 

Failure  to  comply  with  business  norms  not  amounting  to  fraud.  E.g.  Rating 

surveillance fees for 3 years were directed to be disgorged due to inter alia credit 

rating agency failing to disclose changes to certain surveillance assumptions as the 

methodology  stated  that  the  firm  would  do,  misrepresenting  its  surveillance 

methodology for ratings of certain complex financial instruments during a three-

year period, etc.97 

Once  greater  attention  is  paid  to  disclosures  requirements,  any  trading  around  the 

relevant period will allow the Board to compute the undue profits made and the losses 

caused  to  investors  who  were  denied  similar  opportunity.  Similarly,  when  a  stock 

exchange purports to provide services to market participants, where market participants 

are lead to believe that they are all receiving similar kind of services from the exchange 

for similar fees when in fact they were not, the stock exchange may be asked to disgorge 

the  monies  earned  in  breach  of  law  and  of  its  fiduciary  duty  to  the  various  market 

participants who traded on the stock exchange.  

 

                                                           
94 Mark L. Mitchell and Jeffry M. Netter, The Role of Financial Economics in Securities Fraud Cases: Applications 
at the Securities and Exchange Commission, The Business Lawyer, Vol. 49, No. 2 (February 1994), 545, 554-556 
&579-582 available at https://www.jstor.org/stable/40687469. 

95 Mark L. Mitchell and Jeffry M. Netter, The Role of Financial Economics in Securities Fraud Cases: Applications 
at the Securities and Exchange Commission, The Business Lawyer, Vol. 49, No. 2 (February 1994), 545, 583-584 
available at https://www.jstor.org/stable/40687469. 
96  SEC  Administrative  Order  in  the  matter  of  TPG  Capital  Advisors  LLC  dated  21.12.2017,  available  at 
<https://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2017/ia-4830.pdf>. 
97 SEC order against DBRS Inc. available at <https://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2015/34-76261.pdf>. 

 

 
Page | - 252 -  

 

Disclosures are important from the perspective of the investors also. Merely because the 

disclosure that was not made indicates ‘no change’, especially ownership and financial 

information,  compared  to  past  disclosure  does  not  mean  it  is  technical.  Infact, 

information disclosed on a stock exchange including that which reflects ‘no growth’ or ‘no 

change’ may be a key driver for timely divestment by investors to invest in some other 

scrip  where  growth  is  more  probable.  While  large  acquirers  undertake  their  own 

additional  due-diligences,  the  regulatory  disclosures  are  the  key  drivers  of  price 

movement for investors. Investor wealth grows if the company grows, investors choose to 

invest, stay invested or divest based on the price outlook which depends on the disclosed 

information, even if it is no information. After all, the efficient market concept implies 

that all available, or lack of information, is reflected in the price of the listed stock.  

 

The importance of disclosures is also crucial in financial economics (discussed later in 

this Report) which uses inter alia event study methodologies that focus on the study of 

the  effect  of  disclosures  on  price  of  the  securities  markets.  A  focus  on  the  effect  of 

disclosures/non-disclosures and ‘follow the money (or securities or assets)’ are the key 

foundation of investigation in securities laws. These statistical techniques in conjunction 

with focus on disclosures will enhance the ability of the regulator to quantify profit made 

due to failure from disclosures and the loss caused to investors.  

 

RECOMMENDATION: The Committee is of the view that,- 

i.  The  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to 

Securities Market) Regulations, 2003 may be amended on the lines of Section 34 

of the Companies Act, 2013 to clarify that misstatements of any kind in an offer 

document,  placement  memorandum,  or  any  other  document  calling  for 

subscription to securities amounts to fraud; 

 

ii.  The  period  of  investigation,  inquiry,  audit  or  examination  should  ideally 

encompass  the  trading  around  the  period  the  disclosures  were  required  to  be 

made  or  have  been  made  and  also  encompass  any  delinquent  who  may  be  the 

 

 
Page | - 253 -  

 

 

recipient of the unlawful proceeds or securities/assets. An internal Circular may 

be issued in respect of this guideline. 

AT-LEAST BASIS: Loss calculation is not easy and in certain cases can reflect the nature of 

the complexity of the scam. Especially in cases where a fraud has been perpetrated over a 

period of time, the amount of loss though not entirely quantifiable, still an attempt can be 

made on ‘at least’ basis. In U.S. v Ebbers,98 the Court of Appeals estimated a loss to the 

investors of at least US $ one billion and inter alia held as follows: 

“Determining this amount is no easy task. One version of the so-called market 

capitalization test would, in its simplest form, take the share price on the date 

of a fraudulent statement—X-day, we shall call it—subtract from it the share 

price on the day after the fraud is revealed—Y-day— and multiply that amount 

by the number of outstanding shares. 

 

There is  a problem, however, with this simplistic analysis. If the  truth had 

been  told  on  X-day,  shareholder  A  would  have suffered  an  immediate  loss 

commensurate  with  the  fraud  loss  because  potential  buyers  at  the  earlier 

price  would  have  immediately  disappeared  upon  the  bad  news.  When 

perpetrated, therefore, the fraud would not damage A anymore than the truth, 

at  least  immediately.  However,  were  investor  B  to  buy  the  stock  after  the 

fraudulent statement and in reliance upon the integrity of the market price, B 

would suffer a loss in the amount of the price paid less the intrinsic value, 

which, under the market capitalization test, would usually be deemed to be 

the price after the disclosure of the fraud on Y-day. 

 

While shareholder A is as  damaged by the truth as by the fraud on X-day, 

many frauds are ongoing, and, contrary to the testimony of Ebbers' expert, 

shareholder A may suffer a loss over time in being misled in assessing whether 

to hold or sell the stock. While A can be said not to have lost anything as a 

                                                           
98 458 F.3d 110 (2nd Cir. 2006), available at <https://www.leagle.com/decision/2006568458f3d1101558>.  

 

 
Page | - 254 -  

 

 

result of the fraud on X-day —assuming no prior disclosure obligation on the 

defendant's part—if new fraudulent statements are issued on X +1, X +2, etc., 

and the company's true value has further diminished on each occasion, the 

succeeding X-day frauds would have the effect of preventing A from making 

an informed judgment about holding the stock. 

 

The securities laws are intended to allow investors to buy, sell, or hold based 

on accurate information. An investor who buys securities before an extended 

fraud begins, and holds them during the period of the fraud, may therefore be 

little different from one why buys in mid-fraud. 

 

For example, the ongoing fraud here involved a series of periodic, fraudulent 

financial reports that systematically inflated WorldCom's operating profits. If 

the first report had been accurate, some decrease in fundamental value would 

have  been  revealed,  but  the  decrease  would  have  been  far  less  than  that 

revealed in June 2002 after several more fraudulent reports. Investors who 

held  their  stock  throughout  the  fraud  period  were  therefore  denied  the 

opportunity  to  reassess  and  perhaps  sell  according  to  their  own  informed 

estimates of the declining performance. 

 

The loss to investors who hold during the period of an ongoing fraud is not 

easily quantifiable because we cannot accurately assess what their  conduct 

would have been had they known the truth. However, some estimate must be 

made for Guidelines' purposes, or perpetrators of fraud would get a windfall. 

(emphasis  supplied)  Moreover,  revelation  of  an  extended  period  of 

fraudulent financial statements may cause losses beyond that resulting from 

the  restatement  of 

financial  circumstances  because  confidence 

in 

management and in even the truthful portions of a financial statement will be 

lost. ... 

To  be  sure,  this  calculation  is  flawed.  Ebbers'  expert  testified  that  at  least 

some  of  the decline in  WorldCom's  stock  price  immediately  after  June 25, 

 
Page | - 255 -  

 

 

2002, was attributable to factors other than accounting fraud, … Even so, the 

loss amount is still well above $1 billion, or ten times greater than the $100 

million  dollar  threshold  for  the  26-level  enhancement....  Even  a  loss 

calculation of $1 billion is therefore almost certainly too low, and there is no 

reasonable calculation of loss to investors that would call for a remand.” 

Further, since there is no direct relation between the loss to investors and the penalty or 

fine to be levied or the term of imprisonment to be ordered, the strictness with which the 

loss needs to be calculated, is not found in Indian securities laws. 

 

 

A.  DIFFICULTY IN RESPECT OF AN UNREGISTERED OR FRAUDULENT SCHEME FUNDS. 

In securities schemes where money has been raised without the required approvals under 

law e.g. certificate of registration, the person raising the funds without registration (and 

his creditors acquire no right to such funds99) hold the monies in trust and must refund 

them. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in PGF Limited & Ors. v Union of India & Anr.100 has 

noted that ‘The investors virtually by signing on the dotted lines of those stereotyped 

blank  documents  would  never  be  aware  of  the  nature  of  constraints  created  in  the 

document, which would virtually wipe out whatever investment made by them in course 

of time and ultimately having regard to the legal tangles in which such investors would 

have to undergo by spending further monies on litigations, ultimately prefer to ignore 

their  investments  cursing  themselves  of  their  fate.  More  than  90  per  cent  of  such 

                                                           
99 See G. R. Deo, Liquidator, C.P. and Berar Government Clerks’ Mutual benefit Fund, Nagpur v F Karim and Anr, 
AIR 1946 Nag 196, wherein the High Court inter alia held as follows:  

“The question is whether these sums, however paid, and however received, and into whatever account they 
were paid, can be claimed by the liquidator as part of the  company's assets. In our opinion, they cannot. 
Section 3 (l), Insurance Act of 1938, contains an express prohibition. It states that: 

No insurer carrying on any class of insurance business in British India shall, after the expiry of three 
months from the commencement of this Act, continue to carry on such business, unless he has obtained 
from the Superintendent of Insurance a certificate of registration. 

8. As the certificate was not obtained, the company was prevented by law from carrying on its business. Part 
of its business was to obtain contributions from its members. Therefore, it was prohibited from receiving 
these contributions. Accordingly, if it continued to receive these moneys in spite of this prohibition, it could 
not, in our opinion, claim the moneys as its own,..” 

100 Civil Appeal No. 6572 of 2004, Judgment dated 12.03.2013, Para 41. 

 

 
Page | - 256 -  

 

investors would prefer to forget such investments than making any attempt to secure 

their money back. Thereby, the promoters put to unlawful gain who always thrive on 

other peoples money.’ Thus in such cases it is safe to say that, unless refunded the monies 

raised amount to unlawful gain. 

 

Similarly, the loss computation arises in the context of the monies raised and the monies 

available for refund. Also since the person (or the liquidator thereof and his creditors) has 

no title to the funds, the monies in excess must go the IEPF101 or the IPEF102, as the case 

may be.  

 

RECOMMENDATION:  In  this  respect  some  of  the  principles  that  may  be  used  for 

quantifying the losses to investors are as follows, - 

 

i. 

In case of an investment scheme requiring registration under securities laws, loss 

to  an  investor  shall  not  be  reduced  by  the  money  or  the  value  of  the  property 

transferred  to  any  individual  investor  in  the  scheme in  excess  of  that  investor’s 

principal investment (i.e., the gain to an individual investor in the scheme shall not 

be used to offset the loss to another individual investor in the scheme);103 

 

ii. 

In a case involving a scheme in which - (I) services were fraudulently rendered to 

the  victim  by  persons  falsely  posing  as  licensed/registered  professionals;  (II) 

services  were  falsely  represented  as  approved  by  SEBI  or  a  governmental 

regulatory  agency;  or  (III)  services  for  which  regulatory  approval  by  SEBI  or  a 

government agency was required but not obtained, or was obtained by fraud, - loss 

shall include the amount paid for the property or services transferred, rendered, 

or  misrepresented,  with  no  credit  provided  for  the  value  of  those  items  or 

services;104 and 

                                                           
101 See Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
102 See SEBI (Investor Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 2009. 
103  US  Sentencing  Guidelines  p  98,  available  at  <https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/guidelines-
manual/2016/GLMFull.pdf>. 
104 Ibid. 

 

 
Page | - 257 -  

 

 

 

iii.  The losses equal the unreturned amounts originally invested by the investors and 

the  earnings  re-invested  in  such  schemes  (promised  returns  which  are  not  re-

invested are not part of the loss calculation), even though those earnings accrued 

as  a  result  of  such  schemes.  However,  the  most  recent  promised  or  reported 

earnings are excluded.105  

 

B.  LOSS  TO  INVESTORS  DUE  TO  DEFLATION  OR  INFLATION  BY  DEFAULTS  SUCH  AS 

FRAUDULENT TRADING, FALSE OR MISLEADING INFORMATION, ETC. 

Generally, there is no loss attributable to a fraud unless and until the truth (by truth we 

mean any information which breaks the veneer of falsehood and thus discloses the fraud, 

since the whole truth may never come to the knowledge of the market) is subsequently 

revealed and the price of the stock is adversely affected. Where the value of a security 

declines for other reasons, however, such decline, or component of the decline, is not a 

"loss" attributable to the fraud106 and where such ‘attributable’ loss  is mixed with ‘un-

attributable’ loss it may be distinguished from attributable loss to the extent possible. 

 

                                                           
105  Primer  Loss  Calculations  under  §2B1.1(b)(1)  of  the  US  Sentencing  Guidelines  p  23,  available  at 
<https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/training/primers/2016_Primer_Loss.pdf>. See United States v Hsu, 669 
F.3d 112 (2d Cir. 2012), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/623036/united-states-v-hsu/>: 

“The guidelines provide that when an investor puts money into a fraudster's hands, and ultimately receives 
nothing of value in return, his loss is measured by the amount of principal invested, not by the principal 
amount plus the promised interest or return that was never received. The situation is different, however, in 
a case in which an investor is told not simply that his investment will grow, but that it has grown, and that 
the total of his original investment and the accrued interest or other gain is now available to be withdrawn 
or reinvested in the scheme, depending on the investor's preference. (emphasis supplied) ... The task in Hsu's 
case,  however,  is  straightforward.  Hsu's  victims  frequently  returned  post-dated  checks  to  him  for 
reinvestment, thereby relinquishing the opportunity to cash those checks and withdraw from the scheme. 
When this occurred, the reinvested checks- including the previously promised returns- became part of their 
principal investment, and therefore constitute the very losses that Hsu intended to inflict upon his victims. 
The fact that such money may never have "existed," or that the scheme may have collapsed sooner if all 
investors had attempted to withdraw their purported gains at once, does not affect the loss calculation. On 
the facts of this case, the investors were given a clear opportunity to withdraw the total amount of their 
principal and accrued interest, and were induced not to do so by fraudulent promises of continued gain. The 
reinvestments were thus appropriately counted as loss. (emphasis supplied) Hsu's argument that the "gains" 
did not exist, and that there was no money to pay the investors, reduces to the claim that the victims' losses 
do not count because he was unable to pay them back.” 
540, 

(5th  Cir. 

available 

2005), 

429 

at 

See  United 

106 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/2005969429f3d5401966>. 

v.  Olis, 

States 

F.3d 

546 

 

 
Page | - 258 -  

 

RECOMMENDATION: In case of frauds where a large number of investors get affected the 

loss  may  be  calculated  on  the  affected  shares  using  the  methods  indicated  by  the  US 

Sentencing  Commission  and  those  used  in  securities  litigations,  with  suitable 

modifications as follows, - 

“Inflation or Deflation in Value of Securities.—In a case involving the 

fraudulent  inflation  or  deflation  in  the  value  of  securities,  the  Board  in 

determining  loss  may  use  any  method  including  the  following  that  is 

appropriate and practicable under the circumstances, -  

 

i.  MODIFIED RESCISSORY METHOD107: the actual loss attributable to the 

change in value of the security is the amount determined by—  

(I)  calculating  the  difference  between  the  average  price  of  the 

security  during  the  period  that  the  fraud  occurred  and  the 

average price of the security during the relevant108 period after 

the fraud  was disclosed  to  the  market  or  after  the  misconduct 

ended, as may be applicable, and  

(II) multiplying the difference in average price by the number of 

securities  out-standing  after  excluding  those  held  by  the 

defaulters themselves  (if  they  amount  to  substantial  holdings) 

throughout the period of the default, if available.  

 

Explanation  1.  –  Average  price  may  be  calculated  by  using  the 

closing price of each trading day of the time period selected or by 

                                                           
107  United 
at 
v.  Bakhit, 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2360321/united-states-v-bakhit/>; United States v. Grabske, 260 F.Supp.2d 
866 (2002), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2578802/united-states-v-grabske/>: 

218  F.  Supp. 

(C.D.  Cal. 

2d 

1232 

States 

2002), 

available 

“It is thus appropriate to compute the loss based on the average purchase price during the fraud and the 
average price during a relevant period after the fraud. Second, the rescissory method eliminates, or at least 
reduces,  the  complexity,  uncertainty,  and  expense  inherent  in  attempting  to  determine  out-of-pocket 
losses.” 

108 Suitable period: choice of appropriate time period may be made to inter alia consider the time when the market 
could be said to have absorbed the information and reflect the same in the price of the security. There may be delay 
with which the market may start correcting itself or extended periods for the market to correct itself. This depends on 
individual stock and market conditions as seen in Trojan & Co. Ltd v R. M. N. N. Nagappa Chettiar, AIR 1953 SC 
235: 1953SCR780, it need not begin immediately.  

 

 
Page | - 259 -  

 

using any other relevant price, including weighted average price or 

other method. It is not necessary that the relevant period may refer 

to the entire period from which the default occurred and the fraud 

came to a stop, the ‘relevant’ period may refer to a sub-period during 

which  substantial  trades  took  place  or  which  was  immediately 

connected to the fraud. 

 

Explanation 2. – ‘relevant’ period for averaging: In case of 

illiquid securities [including related exchange traded derivatives 

and debt instruments]: the price on the day (or the next trading day, 

whichever is appropriate) the true and fair information/fraud has 

been become publicly disseminated/stopped may be selected or the 

average price for a period not exceeding seven trading days, to the 

extent possible, after the true and fair information/fraud has been 

become publicly disseminated/stopped may be selected, as may be 

deemed fit.  

 

Explanation 3.  – ‘relevant’  period  for averaging: In  case  of 

liquid securities [including related exchange traded derivatives 

and  debt  instruments]:  the period  may  be a  multiple109  of  fifteen 

trading days to be selected after the true and fair information/fraud 

has  been  become  publicly  disseminated/stopped  provided  that  it 

shall  not  exceed  ninety  days,  to  the  extent  possible,  especially  in 

relation to securities which are part of any index [including related 

exchange traded derivatives and debt instruments]. Shorter periods 

may be selected in case extraneous factors demonstrably affect the 

price. 

 

                                                           
109 The deeper the market for a security the longer the period, with maximum possible period in case of a main indices 
such as BSE SENSEX or NIFTY 50. 

 

 
Page | - 260 -  

 

In  determining  whether  the  amount  so  determined  is  a  reasonable 

estimate of  the actual  loss attributable to the change in value of the 

security, the Board may consider, among other factors, the extent to 

which  the  amount  so  determined  includes  ‘significant  changes’  in 

value not resulting from the default (e.g., changes caused by external 

market  forces,  such  as  changed  economic  circumstances,  changed 

investor expectations, and new industry- specific or firm-specific facts, 

conditions,  or  events  that  appear  to  impact  the  price  movement  by 

more  than  20%)  by  fixing  if  possible,  a  suitable  percentage  of  the 

amount determined above. 

 

 

ii.  MARKET CAPITALIZATION METHOD110: the actual loss attributable to 

the change in value of the security is the amount determined by—  

(I)  calculating  the  difference  between  the  immediate  price  of  the 

security during a suitable period prior to the disclosure/stoppage of 

the 

fraud  (usually  the  closing  price  the  day  before  the 

disclosure/stoppage) and the immediate price of the security after 

the fraud was disclosed to the market/stopped (usually the closing 

price after the disclosure/stoppage) (or next day price), and  

(II) multiplying the difference by the number of shares out-standing 

after  excluding  those  held  by  the  defaulters  themselves  (if  they 

amount  to  substantial  holdings)  throughout  the  period  of  the 

default, if available.  

In determining whether the amount so determined is a reasonable 

estimate of the actual loss attributable to the change in value of the 

States 

(5th 

Cir. 

F.3d 

429 

F.3d 

540, 

546 

v.  Olis, 

                                                           
110 (Suitable for instances where the stock valuation falls substantially after the fraud e.g. WorldCom, Enron, Satyam, 
etc.)  United 
at 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/2005969429f3d5401966>;  United  States  v.  Moskowitz, 215  F.3d  265 (2d 
Cir.2000), available at <https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/appellate-courts/F3/215/265/608045/>; and United States 
v. 
at 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/19991487175f3d131211334>. See also United States v. Bakhit, 218 F. Supp. 2d 
1232 (C.D. Cal. 2002), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2360321/united-states-v-bakhit/>.  
 
 
Page | - 261 -  

Hedges, 175 

1312 (11th 

Cir.1999), 

2005), 

available 

available 

 

 

security111, the Board may consider, among other factors, the extent 

to which the amount so determined includes ‘significant changes’ in 

value  not  resulting  from  the  default  (e.g.,  changes  caused  by 

external market forces, such as changed economic circumstances, 

changed investor expectations, and new industry-specific or firm-

specific facts, conditions, or events that appear to impact the price 

movement  by  more  than  20%)  by  fixing  if  possible,  a  suitable 

percentage on the amount determined above: 

Provided that in case of companies which become entirely worthless 

after the default, i.e. If the company whose securities is sold has no 

activities,  assets,  facilities,  or  any  other  source  of  value,  so  that 

"company" has no underlying equity; in such cases instead of taking 

the  difference  take  the  entire  value  of  stock  prior  to  the  fraud 

coming to light.112 

Explanation. – The fact that the stock cannot be traded at all after 

the fraudulent scheme came to light or the stock has been traded 

only  by  “insiders”  in  the  fraudulent  scheme  shall  be  relevant  to 

decide if the stock was worthless. 

 

                                                           
111 
<https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/544/336/>:  

See  Dura  Pharmaceuticals, 

Inc. 

v.  Broudo, 544 U.S. 336 

(2005) 

(S.C.), 

available 

at 

“For one thing, as a matter of pure logic, at the moment the transaction takes place, the plaintiff has suffered 
no  loss;  the  inflated  purchase  payment  is  offset  by  ownership  of  a  share  that at  that  instant possesses 
equivalent  value.  Moreover,  the  logical  link  between  the  inflated  share  purchase  price  and  any  later 
economic loss is not invariably strong. Shares are normally purchased with an eye toward a later sale. But 
if,  say,  the  purchaser  sells  the  shares  quickly  before  the  relevant  truth  begins  to  leak  out,  the 
misrepresentation will not have led to any loss. If the purchaser sells later after the truth makes its way into 
the marketplace, an initially inflated purchase price might mean a later loss. But that is far from inevitably 
so. When the purchaser subsequently resells such shares, even at a lower price, that lower price may reflect, 
not  the  earlier  misrepresentation,  but  changed  economic  circumstances,  changed  investor  expectations, 
new industry-specific or firm-specific facts, conditions, or other events, which taken separately or together 
account for some or all of that lower price. (The same is true in respect to a claim that a share's higher price 
is lower than it would otherwise have been, a claim we do not consider here.) Other things being equal, the 
longer the time between purchase and sale, the more likely that this is so, i.e., the more likely that other 
factors caused the loss.” 

112 
<https://law.resource.org/pub/us/case/reporter/F3/479/479.F3d.715.05-50822.html>. 

Zolp, 

F.3d 

U.S. 

479 

v 

715 

(9th 

Cir. 

 

2007), 

available 

at 

 
Page | - 262 -  

 

iii.  MODIFIED  MARKET  CAPITALIZATION  METHOD113:  comparing  the 

change in stock value of other, stock of similarly placed but unaffiliated 

companies after irregularities in those companies were disclosed to the 

market. The average depreciation may be taken as loss caused. 

 

iv.  SIMPLE RECESSIONARY METHOD114: the actual loss attributable to the 

change in value of the security is the amount determined by calculating 

the difference between the price paid by the affected set of investors 

and  the  price  existing  after  the  fraud  was  disclosed  to  the 

market/stopped. 

 

v.  AVERAGE  LOSS  TO  VICTIM115:  the  number  of  shares  held  by  holders 

who are aggrieved and average loss based on the difference between 

the average price during the fraud (or relevant  period  selected)  and 

average price during the averaging period selected after the fraud.” 

 

The reasons for doing so are as follows, - 

 

i. 

Since there are several ways of calculating loss to investors due to the 

default, therefore only the most approximate calculation in a given set 

of  facts and circumstances may be adopted,  otherwise estimation  of 

loss will be an endless inquiry; 

ii.  Calculating  loss  based  on  depressed  stock  price  on  the  date  trading 

resumed following disclosure of fraud may result in an inflated loss 

adjustment  because  initial  price  drop  may  be  temporary  and  an 

587 

F.3d 

1038 

(9th 

Berger, 

U.S. 

v. 

                                                           
113 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/1345996/united-states-v-berger/>. 
114 Suitable for a loss calculation for a limited set of investors. See United States v. Grabske, 260 F. Supp. 2d 866, 
872–73  (N.D.  Cal.  2002),  available  at  <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2578802/united-states-v-grabske/> 
(loss is based upon the price that the victim paid for the security and the price of the security as it existed after the 
fraud was disclosed). 
115 Suitable for a loss calculation for a limited set of investors where the entire period small, max is a few weeks. See 
United 
at 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/75836/united-states-v-harry-w-snyder-jr/>. 

available 

available 

F. 

3d 

Cir 

2002), 

States 

v. 

Snyder, 

291 

1291 

(11th 

Cir. 

2009), 

at 

 

 
Page | - 263 -  

 

 

anomaly which could be an extreme reaction to the announcement of 

the fraud, hence a bounce-back period for averaging out anomalies has 

to be considered;116 

 

iii.  Though the statute requires that the loss to investors as a result of the 

default to be calculated, no detailed empirical study is required to be 

done  to  consider  the  effect  of  every  conceivable  variable,  which  can 

affect  the  profit  or  loss.  Unrelated  market  events  are  material  only 

insofar as they could be identified and assessed;117  

iv.  The aforesaid methods are neutral to the exact modus operandi which 

cause  the  price  to  rise  or  fall,  whether  it  be  false  news  or  circular 

trading or something else, the aforesaid methods can be used; 

 

v. 

Investors have a right to recover exact damages under civil laws but 

not  under  securities  laws  proceedings  where  they  serve  only  as  a 

guidance tool, because compensating investors are not within SEBI’s 

remit.118 Hence methods to approximate loss are sufficient; 

vi.  The direct losses caused are limited to only those investors who may 

trade  with  the  fraudster;  whereas  indirect  losses  are  between 

investors, some have lost money but their losses translate into profit 

of another sub-set of investors with whom they traded, and not that of 

the fraudster.  In  such cases,  it  is  an  impossible  task  to  differentiate 

between  the  investors  who  have  lost  and  who  have  unwittingly 

profited.  Also  several  persons  may  have  traded  multiple  times  and 

 

States 

218  F.  Supp. 

                                                           
116  United 
v.  Bakhit, 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2360321/united-states-v-bakhit/>. 
117  United 
F. 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/infco20130315045>. 
118 Rakesh Agarwal v SEBI, [2004] 49 SCL 351 (SAT) (Further, the disgorgement of alleged profits is always directed 
as a measure of deterrence and not compensation. Also authority for the point that Civil Court jurisdiction is preserved 
with regard to matters which the Board is not empowered to pass orders by or under the SEBI Act), , available at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/1299749902889.pdf>. 

v.  Gordon, 

(C.D.  Cal. 

2002), 

2d 

1232 

available 

3d 

1124 

at 

at 

(10th 

Cir. 

2013), 

available 

States 

710 

 

 
Page | - 264 -  

 

 

some may not have traded at all but lost money merely on account of 

holding it during the period of fraud. Hence a general approximation 

is made in respect of all the outstanding shares, as if they have been 

affected at least once. By its very nature, it is not meant to be an exact 

determination of loss caused for making compensation or restitution. 

Restitution is tied to the concept of profits made by the fraudster(s) 

and not the victim’s losses, under the garb of restitution directing the 

fraudster(s) to make good the profits not received by him/them but by 

another set of trading investors, - would amount to compensation; 

vii. 

Investors buy and sell at different prices, some at great loss and some 

at  a  profit  and  the  trades  may  be  concentrated  during  a  particular 

period  and  thereafter  market  forces  may  have  resulted  in  a  higher 

price  notwithstanding  the  fraud  thereby  creating  the  perception  of 

having diminished the effect of the fraud. Averaging and focusing on 

particular period  around the relevant default, enables the  loss to be 

calculated even in cases where price after the disclosure of the fraud 

was higher than the average price during the fraud.119 

 

DIFFERENTIATING  IMPACT  FROM  MARKET  MOVEMENTS  AND  THE  DEFAULT:  There  are 

many  statistical  techniques  to  understand  the  impact  of  information  on  price-  some 

simple some complex depending on the nature of information. The Board as a specialised 

body  regulating  the  securities  market  should  become adept  in  using  these  techniques. 

Macroeconomic  events—  such  as  changes  in  interest  rates,  government  spending, 

monetary policy, and oil prices just to name a few—affect almost all companies and the 

returns on almost  all stocks. These  changes  have nothing to  do with company-specific 

news. Some stocks are more (or less) affected than others by such market fluctuations and 

the sensitivity of a stock’s returns to gyrations in market returns is called a stock’s beta. 

Stocks with a beta (β) greater than 1.0 typically respond more than one-for one to changes 

                                                           
119  United 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/75836/united-states-v-harry-w-snyder-jr/>. 

Snyder, 

States 

(11th 

v. 

291 

F. 

3d 

1291 

Cir 

 

2002), 

available 

at 

 
Page | - 265 -  

 

in the return of the overall market. Stocks with a beta (β) less than 1.0 typically vary less 

than one-for-one with market returns. A stock with a beta (β) of 2.0 would therefore fall 

by  twice  the  percentage as  the  market,  on  average,  absent  any  company-specific news 

because that stock is twice as sensitive as the average stock to market movements. Stock 

returns can be broken down into two parts: (i) the part explained by market returns and 

the firm’s beta (β); and (ii) the part affected by company-specific news. These two parts 

are additive. Suppose that the broader market is down by 2% and a company with a beta 

(β) of 2.0 releases a negative earnings announcement that would result in a precipitous 

decline  of  10%  solely  related  to  the  earnings  announcement.  Holding  everything  else 

constant, the stock should be down by 4% because of the market decline, plus another 

10% because of the company specific news, for a total decline of 14%.120 

 

Thus  using  statistical  methods  (the  Beta  (β)  and  Delta  (Δ)  of  securities  are  statistical 

aspects which are used for predicting behaviour of securities by investment managers, 

exchanges and other financial advisors) it may121 be possible to even distinguish between 

impact caused by a default and impact caused by market forces acting on a scrip at the 

same time, since the impact from the market forces can be estimated and deducted from 

the actual movement.  

 

RECOMMENDATION: Where the information mix includes information, which affects the 

market (it may be the entire securities market or sector-specific) it may be possible to use 

the beta (β) of a scrip and delta (Δ) in case of options, if reliable, to arrive at the difference 

between  projected  change  based  on  market  data  and  actual  change  in  addition  to 

advanced statistical methods. 

 

C.  SPECIAL  CASE:  LOSS  TO  INVESTORS  MAY  ARISE  WITHOUT  FALL  IN  PRICE  OF 

SECURITY OR IN SPITE OF RECOVERY IN PRICE. 

                                                           
120 For beta cases see, J Duncan, Recalculating “Loss” in Securities Fraud, (2013) 3 Harvard Business Law Review 
257, pp 268-269 available at <http://www.hblr.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/HLB202_crop.pdf>. 
121 Like all statistical methods, it has drawbacks such as,-a low correlation, another statistical aspect, may make Beta 
unreliable. Also, given the nature of securities markets, past results are no guarantee for future results, hence the 
predictions may not always be spot on. However, Delta which is used for options trading is more highly predictive. 
The difference between predicted return and actual return can give the loss caused to investors as a result of the default. 
 
Page | - 266 -  

 

 

 

This is a special case of loss to investors where positive and negative information is mixed. 

Shareholders may experience an actionable loss if stock does not appreciate as it would 

have  absent  the  fraudulent  conduct.122  A  recovery  in  share  price  after  the  fraud  was 

disclosed to the purchasers does not automatically defeat an inference of economic loss.123 

The inflation in price attributable to fraud could be reduced or eliminated even if there 

were a net increase in price. That could happen, for example, if the company corrected 

the false information and at the same time issued unrelated positive information. “A firm 

that  lies  about  some  assets  cannot  defeat  liability  by  showing  that  other  parts  of  its 

business  did  better  than  expected,  counter-balancing  the  loss.”124  Suppose  a  mining 

corporation makes a market announcement that it has found gold and the price moves up 

See  Dura  Pharmaceuticals, 

                                                           
122 
<https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/544/336/>. 
123 See In re Columbia Sec. Litig., 155 F.R.D. 466, 483 (S.D.N.Y. 1994); Gebhardt v. ConAgra Foods, Inc., 335 F.3d 
824, 832 (8th Cir. 2003), available at <https://openjurist.org/335/f3d/824/gebhardt-v-conagra-foods-inc-c-p-w-d>:  

v.  Broudo, 544 U.S. 336 

available 

at 

Inc. 

(2005) 

(S.C.), 

“ConAgra argues that since its stock's value increased in the weeks after the May announcement the plaintiffs 
can show no connection between the misrepresentations and any loss. However, stockholders can be damaged 
in ways other than seeing their stocks decline. If a stock does not appreciate, as it would have absent the 
fraudulent  conduct,  investors  have  suffered  harm.  (emphasis  supplied)  Therefore,  we  decline  to  attach 
dispositive significance to the stock's price movements absent sufficient facts and expert testimony, which 
cannot be considered at this procedural juncture, to put this information in its proper context.” 

 Acticon  AG  v.  China  North  East  Petroleum  Holdings  Ltd.,  692  F.3d  34  (2d  Cir.  2012),  available  at 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/infco20120801053>. Acticon alleged that NEP misled investors about its reported 
earnings, oil reserves, and internal controls. It further alleged that NEP revealed this information through a series of 
corrective disclosures and that in the trading days after each disclosure was made, NEP's stock price dropped. NEP 
argued that these allegations are not sufficient to allege economic loss because its share price rebounded on certain 
days after the final disclosure to the point that Acticon could have sold its holdings and avoided a loss. The Court 
disagreed with NEP and inter alia held that, - 

“[A] share of stock that has regained its value after a period of decline is not functionally equivalent to an 
inflated share that has never lost value. This analysis takes two snapshots of the plaintiff's economic situation 
and equates them without taking into account anything that happened in between; it assumes that if there are 
any intervening losses, they can be offset by intervening gains. But it is improper to offset gains that the 
plaintiff recovers after the fraud becomes known against losses caused by the revelation of the fraud if the 
stock recovers value for completely unrelated reasons. Such a holding would place the plaintiff in a worse 
position than he would have been absent the fraud. (emphasis supplied) Subject to the bounce-back limitation 
imposed  by  the  PSLRA,  a  securities  fraud  action  attempts  to  make  a  plaintiff  whole  by  allowing  him  to 
recover  his  out-of-pocket  damages,  that  is,  the  difference  between  what  he  paid  for  a  security  and  the 
uninflated price. See Levine, 439 F.2d at 334. In the absence of fraud, the plaintiff would have purchased the 
security at an uninflated price and would have also benefitted from the unrelated gain in stock price. If we 
credit an unrelated gain against the plaintiff's recovery for the inflated purchase price, he has not been brought 
to the same position as a plaintiff who was not defrauded because he does not have the opportunity to profit 
(or suffer losses) from ‘a second investment decision unrelated to his initial decision to purchase the stock.’”) 
(emphasis supplied) 

124  Goldberg  v.  Household  Bank,  F.S.B.,  890  F.2d  965,  966 
<https://openjurist.org/890/f2d/965> (in relation to earnings re-statement by a bank). 

(7th  Cir.  1989),  available  at 

 

 
Page | - 267 -  

 

from Rs. 10 to Rs. 100/- a share, and investors purchase shares of the corporation. After 

a few months the corporation announces that they have found platinum but not gold. The 

stock price rockets to Rs. 1000, in this case the corporation may still have caused loss to 

investors as the price could have been higher by Rs. 90 had the company found both gold 

and platinum.125 

 

 

RECOMMENDATION:  In  cases  where  price  is  affected  by  positive  and  negative  news 

relating to the company examination of loss may be possible by examining their separate 

and cumulative effect. 

 

 

5.  PRINCIPLES  RELATING  TO  QUANTIFICATION  OF  DISPROPORTIONATE  GAIN MADE 

IN INSIDER TRADING MATTERS 

In respect of insider trading, the Committee proposes to discuss quantification in respect 

of  disgorgement  and  in  respect  of  penalties  separately,  due  to  the  unique  nature  of 

disgorgement and for ensuring a sound enforcement regime against insider trading apart 

from just quantification. 

 

The  prevention  of  insider  trading  is  dependent  on  fixing  a  suitable  deterrent  on  the 

insiders who engage in ‘tipping.’ When directors and other insiders within the company 

directly engage in tipping, the profits made by such insiders who themselves trade are 

easy to figure out and therefore easier to subject to deterrent penalties and disgorgement. 

However,  even insiders  know  this and  that  is  why  this form  of  insider  trading  is  rare. 

Instead,  such  company  insiders  ‘tip’  off  outsiders  including  their  relatives,  who  then 

trade. There are several advantages to such modus operandi, - 

                                                           
125 This example is adapted from the U.S. Supreme Court’s oral proceedings in Dura Pharmaceuticals, Inc. v. Broudo. 
Transcript of Oral Argument, Dura Pharm., Inc. v. Broudo, 544 U.S. 336, 2005 WL 236546, (Jan. 12, 2005) available 
at  <https://www.supremecourt.gov/oral_arguments/argument_transcripts/2004/03-932.pdf>.  Also  See  Elizabeth 
Chamblee  Burch,  Reassessing  Damages 
at 
<https://core.ac.uk/download/pdf/76623384.pdf>:  

Securities  Fraud  Class  Actions, 

in 

available 

‘If the gold-platinum scenario sounds too hypothetical, consider a pharmaceutical company that announces 
higher than expected profits to create a market frenzy and later issues both a revised filing revealing its past 
financial woes and announces that it received regulatory approval for a new cancer-fighting drug.’ 

 
Page | - 268 -  

 

 

 

 

i. 

It may be difficult to prove the link between such persons; 

 

ii.  Even if the link is proven, the person who actually commits insider trading may be 

a  person  of  little  consequence  propped  up  to  bear  the  blame of  insider  trading. 

Further,  the  profits  made  may  have  been  withdrawn  from  their  bank  accounts 

without leaving a trace, thus even before the crime is detected, the entire proceeds 

become irrecoverable from such propped up persons. Hence imposing a penalty or 

debarment on such a person may have no deterrent effect since he was selected 

because  he  has  no  real  association  with  the  securities  markets  and  the  monies 

would be irrecoverable; and 

 

iii.  The inside tipper can always claim to not have ‘benefitted’ from the whole event 

even though insider trading could not have been possible without him breaching 

his fiduciary duties to the company and the shareholders in the first place. Though 

the  company  insider’s  liability  is  the  greatest,  he  tries  to  appear  as  the  most 

‘innocent’ of the lot by claiming he has not benefitted- if this were true there is no 

reason  for  such  defaults  to  happen  in  the  first  place.  Unless  joint  liability  is 

considered it will be difficult to justify levy of deterrent penalty and debarment on 

such delinquent insiders when their cases are considered individually. 

The  unfortunate  result  of  the  present  state  of  law  is  that  insider  trading  continues 

unabated, without material deterrent to company insiders who are the first line of defence 

against insider trading. 

 

 

 

 
Page | - 269 -  

 

 

A.  DISGORGEMENT FOR INSIDER TRADING. 

It is the view of the Committee that, the joint penal provision of the SEBI Act is clear in 

respect  of  tippers  link  with  the  profit  of  the  tippee126,  however  there  is  little  clarity  in 

respect of disgorgement. 

 

In this respect an analysis of the law of disgorgement is essential. SEBI initially attempted 

to  develop  an  equitable  tool  for  disgorgement  similar  to  that  found  in  developed 

jurisdictions. It however failed in its initial attempts since the remedy of disgorgement 

was  framed  as  tool  of  compensation  rather  than  as  an  anti-unjust  enrichment 

mechanism.127 Disgorgement depends on the profits made. Subsequently, in Karvy Stock 

Broking Ltd. v SEBI128, which is the foundational case of disgorgement law in India129, 

the  Board  had,130  ordered  disgorgement  and  imposed  joint  and  several  liability  while 

doing so. 

Rakesh 

                                                           
126 See 5.B below. 
127 
at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/1299749902889.pdf> 
and 
Hindustan Lever v. SEBI, [1998] 18 SCL 311 (Appellate Authority); the remedy never had a compensatory nature to 
begin with even in the USA, see Federal Trade Commission v. Bronson Partners, LLC, 654 F.3d 359 (2d Cir. 2011), 
available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/223605/ftc-v-bronson-partners-llc/>:  

available 

Agarwal 

49 

SCL 

351 

(SAT), 

v 

SEBI, 

[2004] 

“Nor, having obtained a disgorgement award, are public entities required to make any particular effort 
to  compensate  the  victims  that  they can identify. See Fischbach, 133  F.3d  at  176; see  also SEC  v. 
Wang, 944  F.2d  80,  88 (2d Cir.1991)  (affirming  a  distribution  plan  that  engaged  in  "line-drawing[,] 
which inevitably leaves out some potential claimants"). While agencies may, as a matter of grace, attempt 
to  return  as  much  of  the  disgorgement  proceeds  as  possible,  the  remedy  is  not,  strictly  speaking, 
restitutionary at all, in that the award runs in favor of the Treasury, not of the victims.” 

128 [2008] 84 SCL 208 (SAT), available at <https://indiacorplaw.in/wp-content/uploads/2008/05/karvystock.pdf>. 
129  Though  NSDL  v  SEBI,  Appeal  No.  147/2006,  SAT  Order  dated  22.11.2007,  available  at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/1291962820302.pdf> 
was 
decided before Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. v SEBI, both were related cases and the Tribunal was of the view that ‘We 
are further of the view ‘that all these issues should have been determined only after the passing of the final order 
holding the appellants guilty of the alleged wrong doings for which proceedings are still pending.’ The law relating 
to disgorgement was explained and laid down in the subsequent case of Karvy Stock Broking Ltd. v SEBI.  
130 Ibid:  

“The  liability  of  all  the  10  entities  to  disgorge  the  aforesaid  amount  was  made  joint  and  several  as, 
according to the Board, they were a party to one large fraud where they either deliberately closed their 
eyes when the wrong doers perpetrated their illegality or were actively involved in the transactions. Quite 
interestingly, the Board observed that the exact apportionment of the liability between various parties 
could be decided by them inter se either by settlement or by suits of indemnity/contribution between 
each  other  and  from  all  persons  including  financiers,  key  operators  and  other  violators.  (emphasis 
supplied) It was further observed that “It is not in the interest of the public that the regulator should 
spend its time in deciding private disputes between various perpetrators of the IPO fraud/cornering of 
shares” (emphasis supplied). It is against this order that the present appeal has been filed.” 

 

 
Page | - 270 -  

 

 

On appeal the Securities Appellate Tribunal inter alia held as follows, - 

“5.  Before  we  deal  with  the  contentions  of  the  parties,  it  is  necessary  to 

understand what disgorgement is. It is a common term in developed markets 

across the world though it is new to the securities market in India. Black’s Law 

Dictionary defines disgorgement  as “The act of  giving up something (such as 

profits  illegally  obtained)  on  demand  or  by  legal  compulsion.”  (emphasis 

supplied) In commercial terms, disgorgement is the forced giving up of profits 

obtained by illegal or unethical acts. It is a repayment of ill-gotten gains that is 

imposed on wrongdoers by the courts. Disgorgement is a monetary equitable 

remedy that is designed to prevent a wrongdoer from unjustly enriching himself 

as a result of his illegal conduct. It is not a punishment nor is it concerned with 

the damages sustained by the victims of the unlawful conduct. Disgorgement of 

ill-  gotten  gains  may  be  ordered  against  one  who  has  violated  the  securities 

laws/regulations but it is not every violator who could be asked to disgorge. Only 

such wrongdoers who have made gains as a result of their illegal act(s) could be 

asked  to  do  so.  (emphasis  supplied)  Since  the  chief  purpose  of  ordering 

disgorgement  is  to  make  sure  that  the  wrongdoers  do  not  profit  from  their 

wrongdoing, it would follow that the disgorgement amount should not exceed 

the total profits realized as the result of the unlawful activity. In a disgorgement 

action,  the  burden  of  showing  that  the  amount  sought  to  be  disgorged 

reasonably approximates the amount of unjust enrichment is on the Board.” 

 

Thus the foundational case-law of the equitable remedy of disgorgement in India, though 

trying  to  draw  an  analogy  from  more  developed  jurisdictions  (like  the  Board’s  earlier 

attempt)  was  based  on  the  dictionary  meaning  of  the  term  rather  than  on  a  legal 

examination  of  case-laws  of  developed  jurisdictions  in  respect  of  disgorgement,  which 

were not placed before the Tribunal. Even existing Indian jurisprudence in respect of joint 

 

 
Page | - 271 -  

 

and several liability was not explored by either litigant.131 What is interesting to note is 

even  US  federal  Courts  initially  floundered  on  a  key  aspect  of  disgorgement  but 

subsequently corrected themselves once the inequitableness came to the fore.132  

                                                           
131 See Dharni Dhar and Ors v Chandra Shekhar & Ors, AIR 1951 All 774, discussing contribution by joint tort-
feasors and its applicability in India depending on the facts and circumstances of each case: 

“The rule [of Merrywhether v Nixon (1799) 8 T. R. 186: 16 R. R. 810 : 101 E. R. 1337] (supplied) was thus 
modified and came to be stated in these words : 

"No person who has been guilty of fraud or any other form of wilful wrong-doing, and has been made 
liable in damages, has any right of contribution or indemnity against any other person who was a joint 
wrong-doer with him….” 

66. Where a civil wrong is committed jointly by certain persons as against another, they purge themselves 
of the consequences of the wrong when they repair the damage caused to that person. It cannot, therefore, 
be said that the hands of tort-feasor  who has repaired the damage are unclean. Indeed  the hands of the 
person who has not yet contributed his share of the loss are unclean and there is no justice in denying the 
relief to the person who has repaired the whole of the damage caused by the action of both of them."  

Also see Kushro S. Gandhi & Ors v N.A. Gajdar & Ors, 1970 (SC) AIR 1468, 1969 SCR (2) 959, holding that the 
recovery of the entire liability could be made from all or any of the persons jointly liable before they rely on accord 
and satisfaction without going into the correctness of Dharni Dhar and Ors v Chandra Shekhar & Ors, AIR 1951 All 
774. 
132  See  SEC  v  Lauer  &  Ors.,  445  F.  Supp.  2d  1362 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/2499896/sec-v-lauer/>,  wherein 
development of requirement of tracing in respect of disgorgement,- 

available 
inter  alia  observed 

at 
the 

(S.D.  Fla.  2006), 

the  court 

“Lauer  cites,  among  other  cases,  S.E.C.  v.  First  City  Financial  Corp.,  Ltd.,  890  F.2d  1215,  1230 
(D.C.Cir.1989) ("First City") which states that because "disgorgement primarily serves to prevent unjust 
enrichment,  the  court  may  exercise  its  equitable  power  only  over  property  causally  related  to  the 
wrongdoing." Several cases have cited First City for this proposition, most notably for our purposes, CFTC 
v. Sidoti, 178 F.3d 1132, 1138 (11th Cir.1999), and SEC v. Gane, 2005 WL 90154, *19 (S.D.Fla. 2005) 
(Gonzales, J.). The Eleventh Circuit, relying upon First City, held that "the district court may not disgorge 
profits obtained without the aid of any wrongdoing." Sidoti, 178 F.3d at 1138. The Sidoti Court went on to 
find that the district court had abused its discretion for ordering disgorgement of profits for a period during 
which there was no record evidence of fraud.  

 

Subsequent  to  First  City,  the  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  District  of  Columbia  reviewed  the  narrow 
interpretation Lauer proposes for the holding in First City and held to do so conflicts with longstanding 
precedent and would lead to a monstrous doctrine that would perpetuate rather than correct an inequity. In 
SEC  v.  Banner  Fund  Int'l,  et  al.,  211  F.3d  602,  617  (D.C.Cir.2000),  the  Court  of  Appeals  explained: 
(emphasis supplied) 

“Because disgorgement is an equitable obligation to return a sum equal to the amount wrongfully 
obtained, rather than a requirement to replevy a specific asset, we reject Blackwell's challenge 
and affirm the district court. 

. . . As the SEC points out, the requirement of a causal relationship between a wrongful act and 
the property to be disgorged does not imply that a court may order a malefactor to disgorge only 
the actual property obtained by means of his wrongful act. Rather, the causal connection required 
is between the amount by which the defendant was unjustly enriched and the amount he can be 
required  to  disgorge.  To  hold,  as  Blackwell  maintains,  that  a  court  may  order  a  defendant  to 
disgorge only the actual assets unjustly received would lead to absurd results. Under Blackwell's 
 
Page | - 272 -  

 

 

 

Pursuant  to  a  detailed  enquiry  into  the  foundations  of  the  equitable  nature  of 

disgorgement  the  Committee  is  of  the  view  that  the  aforesaid  decision  (whereby 

disgorgement in India is limited to only those persons who have received the proceeds of 

default and only to the extent of the proceeds received) is per incuriam. 

 

The Committee has examined the case laws surrounding disgorgement in USA, which is 

the  foremost  securities  market  in  the  world  where  this  remedy  has  been  prominently 

applied133 and several Anglo-American principles of equity and law in common with those 

                                                           

approach, for example, a defendant who was careful to spend all the proceeds of his fraudulent 
scheme,  while husbanding his other assets, would be immune from an order of disgorgement. 
Blackwell's would be a monstrous doctrine for it would perpetuate rather than correct an inequity. 
(emphasis supplied)” 

 Many district courts faced with this argument agree that "[t]here is no requirement that frozen assets be 
traceable to the fraudulent activity underlying a lawsuit." SEC v. Dennis Crowley, Case No. 0480354-Civ-
Middlebrooks, Slip. Op. (S.D.Fla.2004) (order by consent by Magistrate Judge Johnson) [DE 1368, 
Ex. I]; see also SEC v. A.B. Financing and Inv., Inc., Case No. 02-23487-Civ-Ungaro-Benages, Slip. 
Op. at 2-3. (S.D.Fla.2003) ("a district court may freeze assets not specifically traced to illegal activity" 
quoting Levi Strauss & Co. v. Sunrise Int'l Trading Inc., 51 F.3d 982 (11th Cir.1995)) [DE 1368, Ex. 
J]; SEC v. Belmonte, No. 88 6557, 1991 WL 214252 (S.D.Fla.1991) (Roettger, J.) (refusing to release 
funds from sale of home, even though home had been acquired prior to alleged fraud, because there 
had  been  no  showing  that  ill-gotten  funds  had  not  been  used  to  subsidize  mortgage  payments  or 
improve home); SEC v. Current Financial Svcs., 62 F. Supp. 2d 66, 68 (D.D.Cir.1999) (refusing to 
release personal funds not traceable to the fraud because defendant's liability exceeded total funds 
frozen); SEC v. Grossman, 887 F. Supp. 649, 661 (S.D.N.Y.1995) ("it is irrelevant whether the funds 
affected by the Asset Freeze are traceable to the illegal activity") (aff'd, 101 F.3d 109 (2d Cir. 1996)); 
SEC v. Roor, No. 99-3372, 1999 WL 553823 at *2 (S.D.N.Y.1999) (denying motion to release so-called 
"untainted" funds from mortgage of property that preexisted alleged fraud); SEC v. Glauberman, 
No.  90-5205,  1992  WL  175270  at  *1  (S.D.N.Y.1992)  (rejecting  defendant's  argument  that  funds 
subject to disgorgement must be traced "dollar for dollar" to the illegal activity). (emphasis supplied) 

 

….The amount of assets to be frozen, prior to the finding of liability, is determined not by whether 
the funds themselves are traceable to the fraudulent activity underlying the lawsuit, but by showing 
a reasonable approximation of the amount, with interest, the defendant was unjustly enriched. Id.; 
SEC v. Blatt 583 F.2d 1325, 1335 (5th Cir.1978). (emphasis supplied)” 

 
133 SEC v. Texas Gulf Sulphur Co., 401 F.2d 833 (2d Cir. 1968) (directing the district court to consider the remedy of 
restitution),  available  at  <https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/appellate-courts/F2/401/833/324140/>;  SEC  v.  Texas 
Gulf  Sulphur  Co.,  401  F.2d  833  (2d  Cir.  1968)  (district  court  directing  restitution),  available  at 
<https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/district-courts/FSupp/312/77/1468753/>  and  SEC  v.  Texas  Gulf  Sulphur  Co., 
446  F.2d  1301 
at 
<https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/appellate-courts/F2/446/1301/140482/>. 

(upholding  district 

(2d  Cir.  1971) 

court  order  of 

restitution), 

available 

 

 
Page | - 273 -  

 

and our jurisdiction. No statute governs the disgorgement of ill-gotten profits- rather, the 

principles of equity provide the foundation for this remedy.134  

 

While  the  equity  foundation  of  disgorgement  is  correct  and  disgorgement  is  generally 

limited to the extent of the illegal gains made by a particular defaulter, however equity 

provides  for  an  important  exception:  joint  defaulters.  In  case  of  joint  defaulters,  the 

disgorgement remedy has always been on the basis of joint and several liability. It is not 

limited to the amount of monies received by a particular defaulter. The latest landmark 

ruling in respect of joint and several liability is SEC v. Contorinis,135 wherein the US Court 

of Appeals examined the entire case law relating to disgorgement and inter alia held as 

follows, - 

“The primary issue presented is whether an insider trader who trades on behalf 

of another person or entity using funds he does not own, and thus produces illegal 

profits  that  he  does  not  personally  realize,  can  nevertheless  be  required  to 

disgorge  the  full  amount  of  illicit  profit  he  generates  from  his  illegal  and 

fraudulent  actions.  Because  our  cases  have  established  that  tippers  can  be 

required to disgorge profits realized by their tippees’ illegal insider trading, and 

this  case  is  distinguishable  only  insofar  as  Contorinis  himself  executed  the 

fraudulent trades  rather  than  leave  that  task  to  a tippee,  we conclude that  the 

district court was empowered to enter the disgorgement order, and did not abuse 

its discretion in doing so.  

… 

Contorinis  argues  that  because  he  never  personally  controlled  the  profits  that 

accrued to the Paragon Fund – although he could make investment decisions, he 

                                                           
134 
781, 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/19651125344f2d7811934>. 

See Janigan 

Taylor, 344 

F.2d 

v. 

786 

(1st 

Cir.1965), 

available 

at 

135  2014  U.S.  App.  LEXIS  2927  (2d  Cir.  Feb.  18,  2014),  available  at  <https://cases.justia.com/federal/appellate-
courts/ca2/12-1723/12-1723-2014-02-18.pdf?ts=1410919262>. Also see,  SEC v.  Great  Lakes  Equities Co., 775  F. 
Supp. 
<https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/district-
courts/FSupp/775/211/1555222/>, wherein the court inter alia held that,-  

(E.D.  Mich. 

available 

1991), 

211, 

214 

at 

"[t]he benefit or unjust enrichment of a defendant includes not only what it gets to keep in its pocket after the 
fraud, but also the value of the other benefits the wrongdoer receives through the scheme. Thus, in insider 
trading cases, a tipper must disgorge not only his own profits but also any profits made by his tippees, even if 
the tipper did not receive any tangible kickback from those tippees.”  

 
Page | - 274 -  

 

 

 

did  not  control  disbursement  of  the  proceeds  –  ordering  him  to  disgorge  the 

entire  amount  gained  through  his  insider  trading  is  a  misapplication  of  the 

disgorgement principle. The argument identifies an ambiguity in the concept of 

disgorgement.  

… 

Contorinis argues, in effect, that one can only “disgorge” what one has personally 

“swallowed”; the SEC argues that a fraudster should be compelled to return not 

only those profits from the fraud that he has reserved for his own use, but also 

those that he has bestowed on others.  

… 

In resolving this dispute, we do not write on a clean slate. Our prior cases indicate 

that an insider trader may be ordered to disgorge not only the unlawful gains that 

accrue to the wrongdoer directly, but also the benefit that accrues to third parties 

whose gains can be attributed to the wrongdoer’s conduct. We have long applied 

that principle in the tipper‐tippee context. Thus, in SEC v. Warde we held that, in 

the determination of a disgorgement amount, “[a] tippee’s gains are attributable 

to the tipper, regardless whether benefit accrues to the tipper.” 151 F.3d 42, 49 

(2d Cir. 1998). That principle has deep roots in parallel civil remedial structures. 

For example, in Elkind v. Ligget & Myers, Inc., 635 F.2d 156, 165 (2d Cir. 1980), 

we concluded that “[t]rades by tippees are attributed to the tipper” in determining 

liability for damages, and in SEC v. Texas Gulf Sulphur Co., 446 F.2d 1301, 1308 

(2d Cir. 1971), the foundational case for insider trading liability, we required a 

tipper  to  make  common‐law  civil  restitution  “for  the  profits  derived  by  his 

tippees. That rule makes perfect sense. A potential tipper in possession of inside 

information  who  seeks  to  confer  a  benefit  on  a  friend  or  to  curry  favor  with 

someone  who  can  confer  reciprocal  benefits  in  the  future  can  do  so  either  by 

trading  on  this  information  himself  and  passing  the  profit  on  to  the  intended 

beneficiary, or by passing the information to the beneficiary and thus allowing 

the  tippee  to  realize  the  profit  himself.  In  the  former  case,  the  insider  would 

unquestionably be liable to disgorge the profit; disgorgement is required whether 

the  insider  trader  has  put  his  profits  into  a  bank  account,  dissipated  them  on 
 
Page | - 275 -  

 

 

transient pleasures, or given them away to others.

It would make little sense to 

allow the insider to escape disgorgement when he gives away not the proceeds of 

a trade predicated on his insider knowledge, but rather the knowledge itself to 

others  who  he  knows  will  spin  the  information  into  gold  by  trading  on  it 

themselves. (emphasis supplied) 

… 

There is no injustice, therefore, in making him responsible for the profits he made 

for others, as well as for himself, through his fraudulent insider trades.  

… 

As  we  said  in  Warde,  in  the  absence  of  the  discretion  to  allocate  liability  to 

wrongdoers, “[t]he value of the rule in preventing misuse of inside information 

would  be virtually  nullified  [because]  those  in  possession  of  such information, 

although prohibited from trading for their own accounts, [would be] free to use 

the inside information on trades to benefit their families, friends, and business 

associates.”  151  F.3d  at  49.  See  also  Tex.  Gulf  Sulphur,  446  F.2d  at  1308 

(“[W]ithout such a remedy, insiders could easily evade their duty to refrain from 

trading on the basis of inside information. Either the transactions so traded could 

be  concluded  by  a  relative  or  an  acquaintance  of  the  insider,  or  implied 

understandings  could  arise  under  which  reciprocal  tips  between  insiders  in 

different corporations could be given.”). (emphasis supplied) 

 

… 

We do not conclude that district courts must impose disgorgement liability for 

insider trading upon wrongdoers when the gains accrue to innocent third parties, 

but rather that the district courts may elect to do so in appropriate circumstances. 

(emphasis supplied) 

… 

As our consideration of the tipper context demonstrates, to so limit the power of 

courts to order disgorgement would permit evasion of the prohibition on insider 

trading by allowing the direction of benefits to acquaintances. 

… 

 
Page | - 276 -  

 

 

As  our  case  law  has  indicated  (and  as  our  opinion  here  confirms),  when  third 

parties have benefitted from illegal activity, it is possible to seek disgorgement 

from the violator, even if that violator never controlled the funds. The logic of this, 

as more fully articulated supra, is that to fail to impose disgorgement on such 

violators  would  allow them  to  unjustly  enrich  their  affiliates.  Thus,  ordering  a 

violator to disgorge gain the violator never possessed does not operate to magnify 

penalties or offer an alternative to fines, but serves disgorgement’s core remedial 

function  of  preventing  unjust  enrichment.  (emphasis  supplied)  District  courts 

possess  the  equitable  discretion  to  determine  whether  disgorgement  liability 

should fall upon third parties or violators, a responsibility concordant with the 

district courts’ broad discretion to assay disgorgement more generally.” 

Also  see  SEC  v.  Hughes  Capital  Corp.,136  wherein  the  Court  inter  alia  explained  the 

principles of the law of torts underpinning disgorgement and held as follows, - 

“"Disgorgement is an equitable remedy designed to deprive a wrongdoer of his 

unjust enrichment and to  deter others from violating securities laws." SEC v. 

First City Fin. Corp., 890 F.2d 1215, 1230 (D.C. Cir. 1989). When apportioning 

liability among multiple tortfeasors, it is appropriate to hold all tortfeasors jointly 

and  severally  liable  for  the  full  amount  of  the  damage  unless  the  liability  is 

reasonably apportioned. "Where joint tortfeasors cause a single and indivisible 

harm  for  which  there  is  no  reasonable  basis  for  division  according  to  the 

contribution of each, each tortfeasor is subject to liability for the entire harm." 

(emphasis supplied) United States v. Alcan Aluminum Corp., 964 F.2d 252, 268-

69 (3d Cir. 1992).137 

                                                           
136  124  F.3d  449,  455  (3d  Cir.  1997),  available  at  <https://casetext.com/case/securities-and-exchange-v-hughes-
capital>. 
137  See  United  States  v.  Alcan  Aluminum  Corp.,  964  F.2d  252 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/19921216964f2d25211183>: 

(3d  Cir.  1992),  available  at 

“Obviously, of critical importance in this analysis is whether a harm is divisible and reasonably capable of 
apportionment, or indivisible, thereby subjecting the tortfeasor to potentially far-reaching liability. Under the 
Restatement, where a joint tortfeasor seeks to apportion the full amount of a plaintiff's damages according to 
that tortfeasor's own contribution to the harm, it is the tortfeasor's burden to establish that the damages are 
capable of such apportionment. As the comments concerning this issue explain, the burden of proving that 
the harm is capable of apportionment is placed on the tortfeasor to avoid.” 

 

 
Page | - 277 -  

 

 

 

Courts have held that joint-and-several liability is appropriate in securities cases 

when two or more individuals or entities collaborate or have close relationships 

in  engaging  in  the  illegal  conduct.  (emphasis  supplied)  See  First  Jersey 

Securities, 101 F.3d at 1475; Hateley v. SEC, 8 F.3d 653, 656 (9th Cir. 1993). In 

the instant  case,  the  defendants  all  collaborated  in  a single  scheme  to  defraud 

Hughes' investors through the bogus initial public offering and the subsequent 

sale of warrants. They enjoyed a “close relationship" with each other through their 

connection  to  Hughes,  the  other  corporations  used  in  the  scheme,  and  the 

nominee accounts used to perpetuate the scheme.” 

Thus,  the  elective  nature  of  imposing  joint  and  several  liability  for  fraud  and  insider 

trading by drawing upon the common law principles of tort and equity is well laid down 

in US law. For a long time, in USA disgorgement was a remedy available only through 

Federal Courts; in 1990 the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 

the  Investment  Advisors  Act  of  1940  and  the  Investment  Company  Act  of  1940  were 

amended by the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act138 and 

the SEC has been authorised to seek disgorgement in its own proceedings. 

 

Indian  jurisprudence  while  trying  to  frame  a  remedy  of  disgorgement  on  the  lines  of 

developed  jurisdictions  actually  fell  short  of  imposing  joint  and  several  liability  on 

defaulters, as our Anglo-Indian tort jurisprudence of joint and several liability was not 

examined,  thus  allowing  defaulters  to  arrange  their  affairs  in  a  manner  to  defeat  the 

enforcement of securities laws. 

 

The  Securities  Laws  (Amendment)  Act,  2014,  inserted  the  following  Explanation  in 

Section 11B of the SEBI Act, Section 19 of the Depositories Act and Section 12A of the 

SCRA, - 

                                                           
It is not the profit to be disgorged that has to be apportioned, but the harm. If the harm caused is an indivisible 
whole like a scheme to defraud investors, the profit may be disgorged, jointly and severally. 
138 Available at <https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/STATUTE-104/pdf/STATUTE-104-Pg931.pdf>. 

 

 
Page | - 278 -  

 

 

“Explanation. —For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that power to issue 

directions  under  this  section  shall  include  and  always  be  deemed  to  have  been 

included  the  power  to  direct  any  person,  who  made  profit  or  averted  loss  by 

indulging in any transaction or activity in contravention of the provisions of this Act 

or regulations made thereunder, to disgorge an amount equivalent to the wrongful 

gain made or loss averted by such contravention.” 

The Explanation gives the impression that the disgorgement can be done ‘only’ from a 

person who has made illegal gains by indulging in a contravention of securities laws and 

such disgorgement shall be equal to the amount gained. As such the Explanation gives an 

impression by converse reasoning that disgorgement can only be done from a person who 

has received monies. However, a deeming provision is not to be extended to what it does 

not say, it is to be applied only to what it says. A legal fiction cannot be carried further 

than what  it says.139 The Explanation does not use the word ‘only’ nor does it actually 

prohibit the levy of joint and several liability. The Explanation was introduced only for 

the removal of certain doubts rather than creating new ones. Hence, it is the view of the 

Committee that Section 32 which permits the application of other laws is an important 

source by which securities laws jurisprudence can be developed and remedies shaped to 

deal  with  different  kinds  of  situations.  Hence,  the  Committee  is  of  the  view  that 

notwithstanding  the  present  Explanation,  it  is  permissible  for  the  Board  to  rely  upon 

Section 32 of the SEBI Act and direct disgorgement on joint and several liability basis 

whether or not all such persons have actually received monies, since the delinquent act is 

joint, the receipt of illegal proceeds by anyone in furtherance of such an act is receipt by 

all.  

In this respect it must be considered that the concept of fraud in securities laws is wider 

than  the  concept  of  common  law  fraud,  which  is  too  restrictive  to  deal  with  the 

complexities of the securities markets.140 While the restrictions may not applicable vis a 
                                                           
139 See K. S. Dharmadatan vs Central Government And Ors, 1979 AIR SC 1495, 1979 SCR (3) 832; Commissioner 
of Sales Tax, Uttar Pradesh v. The Modi Sugar Mills Ltd., 1961 AIR SC 1047, 1961 SCR (2) 189; Braithwaite & Co. 
(India) Ltd.  v. Employees' State Insurance Corporation,  1968 AIR SC 413, 1968 SCR  (1) 771;  Commissioner  of 
Income Tax Bombay City v. Elphinstone Spinning and Weaving Mills Co. Ltd., 1960 AIR SC 1016. 

140  

SEBI v Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel, 2017 (15) SCC 1 : 2017 SCC Online SC 1148. 

 

 
Page | - 279 -  

 

vis the Board, several of the broader concepts relating to common law fraud are equally 

applicable to securities laws are definitely applicable, in view of section 32 of the SEBI 

Act, 1992. Thus, the Supreme Court has considered the American caselaw (including cases 

relating  to  insider  trading)  surrounding  their  pari  materia  anti-fraud  provision  in 

securities laws, which also covers insider trading without specifically mentioning it, and 

has held that in cases of fraud, joint liability can be imposed on the delinquents (including 

the one who initiates) and those who aid and abet.141 

 

 

 

ALTERNATIVE RECOMMENDATION: Though an amendment for the purpose of clarifying 

the  joint  and  several  liability  is  not  required,  however  for  sake  of  clarity  it  may  be 

considered. 

i. 

If required, the existing explanation in respect of disgorgement in securities laws 

be amended for the sake of clarifying any doubts in respect of  joint and several 

liability, as follows, - 

“Explanation.—For  the  removal  of  doubts,  it  is  hereby  declared  that  the 

power  to  issue  directions  under  this  section  shall  include  and  always  be 

deemed to have been included the power to direct jointly and severally, 

all or any of the persons, who made profit or averted loss by indulginged 

in any transaction or activity in contravention of the provisions of this Act 

or regulations made thereunder, to disgorge an amount equivalent to the 

wrongful gain made or loss averted by such contravention.” 

 

SPECIAL  CASE:  DISGORGEMENT  ACTION  TAKEN  BY  EMPLOYERS  AGAINST  THEIR 

EMPLOYEES: It is seen that various companies and other entities take action in the nature 

of disgorgement against their employees. But there is no clarity as to where the monies 

disgorged by such companies and entities from their employees go. Some have complied 

with the spirit of the securities laws and deposited the monies with the SEBI IPEF while 

                                                           
141  

Ibid. 

 

 
Page | - 280 -  

 

some have taken advantage of the situation and kept the monies with themselves. Further, 

there is no clarity in this respect as not  all  companies and entities report in detail the 

nature  of  action  taken  against  delinquent  employees,  since  no  standardised  reporting 

format has been provided.  

 

Objectively seen, there is already a situation where insider trading is difficult to prove and 

even in cases where violations are found they are not adequately reported to the Board. 

The entire insider trading regime is open to misuse where unscrupulous employers can 

use ‘employees’ as front men to undertake trading and then use their powers to ‘penalise’ 

or ‘sanction’ such employees under the Code of Conduct to fill their own coffers by taking 

advantage of lack of clarity in law. Even the reporting of such violations by the employer 

to the Board was inadequate or incomplete and only recently a detailed reporting format 

has been specified by the Board vide Circular dated July 19, 2019. It is interesting to note 

that  this  situation  has  continued  since  2002  when  the  Code  of  Conduct  was  first 

mandated in the 1992 Regulations relating to insider trading.  

 

Hence a detailed examination of the power of disgorgement, if any, of the powers vested 

in  employers  under  securities  laws  has  been  undertaken  in  this  Report.  The  SEBI 

(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992 inter alia provided as follows,- 

“Penalty for contravention of code of conduct  

.1  Any  employee/officer/director/partner  who  trades 

in  securities  or 

communicates any information for trading in securities in contravention of the 

code of conduct may be penalised and appropriate action may be taken by the 

company/organisation/firm.  

.2 Employees/officers/directors/partners of the company who violate the code 

of  conduct shall also be subject to disciplinary action by the company, which 

may  include  wage  freeze,  suspension,  ineligible  for  future  participation  in 

employee stock option plans, etc.  

.3 The action by the company/organisation/firm shall not preclude SEBI from 

taking any action in case of violation of SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 

Regulations, 1992.”  

 
Page | - 281 -  

 

 

 

The open ended language pertaining to the ‘penalties’ that the employer may impose has 

given rise to this issue. In the first instance, it must be noted that ‘penalties’ imposed by 

an employer are not ‘penalties’ imposed by the Board under securities laws. Sanctions and 

penalties  by  employers  are  essentially  disciplinary  in  nature  and  form  the  terms  of 

employment of every employee-employer contract, and are not ‘delegated’ by the Board. 

Further, the provision makes clear that the action taken by the employer is not supposed 

to  prejudice  any  action  by  the  Board.  In  cases  where  illegal  trading  take  place  and 

disgorgement is done by the employer who then keeps the monies with himself instead of 

depositing them in the IPEF, not only does such employer prejudice the disgorgement 

action which would otherwise have been taken by the Board and the monies deposited in 

the IPEF, but it is also  not in line with the  ‘equitable’ nature of disgorgement. Insider 

trading violations which result in unlawful gains do not create any ‘equities’ between the 

employer  and  employee  which  need  to  be  adjusted  between  them,  it  is  generally 

considered to be a victim-less crime. It is not in the nature of an excess remuneration or 

incentive that is later recovered or clawed back from the employee. 

 

The  SEBI  (Prohibition  of  Insider  Trading)  Regulation,  2015  inter  alia  provides  that 

‘Without prejudice to the power of the Board under the Act, the code of conduct shall 

stipulate  the  sanctions  and  disciplinary  actions,  including  wage  freeze,  suspension, 

recovery, clawback, etc.’ Though the new regulations remove the confusion in respect of 

employer disciplinary action being ‘penalties under securities laws’ as well as lay down 

that in case of contra trades the monies should be deposited in the IPEF, there is still no 

clarity in respect of disgorgement taken by the employer for other violations including 

insider trading. Hence, the aforesaid reasoning applies with equal force to other violations 

and the employer cannot recover or clawback or disgorge the unlawful profits from non-

contra trade violations and keep them with himself, thereby ‘unjustly enriching’ himself 

under  the  guise  of  enforcement  of  the  Code  of  Conduct.  Clawback  and  recovery  are 

provisions designed to take ‘back’ the amounts that the employer may have given to the 

employee in the first place. Unlawful profits accruing from trading are not monies that 

 

 
Page | - 282 -  

 

the employee has made from or on behalf of or given by the employer which the employer 

may recover or clawback under these provisions. 

 

RECOMMENDATION: The Board may consider issuing a circular to all employers who are 

required to frame a code of conduct under the 1992 or 2015 regulations relating to insider 

trading,  to,  in  case  of  sanctions  have  been  imposed  by  an  employer  in  the  nature  of 

disgorgement under the 1992 or 2015 regulations relating to insider trading prior to the 

issue of the Circular, the monies so disgorged shall be deposited in the SEBI IPEF within 

30 working days; and 

 

RECOMMENDATION:  The  Board  may  consider  amending  the  2015  insider  trading 

regulations to clarify that the employer cannot impose a sanction against an employee, if 

such sanction would amount to disgorgement of profit resulting from insider trading. 

 

 

B.  PENALTY IN RESPECT OF INSIDER TRADING. 

Penalty for insider trading is levied under Section 15G  of the SEBI Act which reads as 

follows, - 

“Section 15G. Penalty for insider trading.- 

If any insider who,—  

(i)  either  on  his  own  behalf  or  on  behalf  of  any  other  person,  deals  in 

securities of a body corporate listed on any stock exchange on the basis of any 

unpublished price-sensitive information; or  

(ii)  communicates  any  unpublished  price-sensitive  information  to  any 

person, with or without his request for such information except as required 

in the ordinary course of business or under any law; or  

(iii) counsels, or procures for any other person to deal in any securities of any 

body corporate on the basis of unpublished price-sensitive information,  

shall be liable to a penalty which shall not be less than ten lakh rupees but which 

may extend to twenty-five crore rupees or three times the amount of profits 

made out of insider trading, whichever is higher.” 

 

 
Page | - 283 -  

 

 

Section  15G  covers  different  kinds  of  default  and  only  clause  (i)  is  actual  insider 

trading.142  

Clause  (iii)  is  linked  to  insider  trading,  it  is  sufficient  for  an  insider  to  only  ‘counsel’ 

another to deal in securities, though actual trading may not happen.  

Clause (ii) is linked to insider trading, it is the act of ‘tipping’ and does not require actual 

trading by the ‘tippee’ for the tipper to be punishable. 

 

However, under 15G whenever, trading does happens as a result of clause (ii) and (iii), 

the persons liable under (ii) and (iii) are liable to the extent of three times the amount of 

profits made by the act of insider trading [clause (i)], even it is not done by them- and not 

from the act of communication or procurement for which they are charged with under 

clauses (ii) and (iii).  

Section 15G is to a large extent a condensed version of Sections 20(a) & (b),143 20A and 

21A  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act,  1934144  which  imposes  penalty  on  a  person,  who 

passes  unpublished  price  sensitive  information,  equal  to  the  profits  made  by  insider 

trading. Thus, the intent of Indian securities law is to impose a form of joint and several 

penal liability on the ‘tipper-tippee’ relatable to the profits made from the act of insider 

trading per se, rather than to penalize the each person only to the extent of the money 

that he may receive. 

 

                                                           
142 Insider trading is the act of trading while in possession of unpublished price sensitive information, See Regulation 
4 of SEBI (Prevention of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. 
143 
at 
U. 
<https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/463/646/case.html>  (tipper  liability  is  based  on  Section  20(b)  of  the 
Securities Exchange Act, 1934), inter alia holding that:  

available 

(1983), 

Dirks 

SEC, 

646 

463 

Sec 

S. 

v. 

“The conclusion that recipients of inside information do not invariably acquire a duty to disclose or abstain 
does not mean that such tippees always are free to trade on the information. The need for a ban on some 
tippee trading is clear. Not only are insiders forbidden by their fiduciary relationship from personally using 
undisclosed corporate information to their advantage, but they also may not give such information to an 
outsider for the same improper purpose of exploiting the information for their personal gain. See 15 U.S.C. 
§  78t(b)  (i.e.  Section  20(b)  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act,  1934-supplied)  (making  it  unlawful  to  do 
indirectly "by means of any other person" any act made unlawful by the federal securities laws).” (emphasis 
supplied) 

144  Available  at  <http://legcounsel.house.gov/Comps/Securities%20Exchange%20Act%20Of%201934.pdf>  and 
codified 
at 
<http://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?path=/prelim@title15/chapter2B&edition=prelim>. 

§78a-78qq, 

available 

Chapter 

Code, 

Title 

2B, 

15, 

U. 

S. 

at 

 

 
Page | - 284 -  

 

Disgorgement is a very important remedy in securities laws. When a defaulter makes an 

unlawful gain he enriches himself unjustly so the penalty imposed on him should not be 

allowed to be paid using such ill-gotten gains, else the penalty loses its deterrent effect. 

Hence, in cases where disgorgement is not made, the penalty should be higher than the 

ill-gotten gains. This is an important barometer to decide which multiple of profit should 

be selected while imposing penalty in insider trading matters (as well as under Section 

15HA of the SEBI Act). It is important to expand upon the liability of insiders to ensure 

proper control mechanisms are put in place to avoid the possibility of insider trading. 

 

 RECOMMENDATION: Securities laws may be amended as follows,- 

 

i.  A  new  provision  should  be  introduced  regarding  ‘controlling  person  liability’ 

similar to that found in USA. Employers and intermediaries who fail to put in place 

reasonable systems that can control and limit the violations of securities laws must 

be held liable for the defaults that they allow to occur due to their recklessness. 

Further,  the  provision  should  also  clarify  the  liability  of  joint  persons,  i.e.  (i) 

persons  who  employ  other  persons  to  assist  such  persons  in  the  violation  of 

securities laws; and (ii) those who provide substantial assistance to such person. 

The following amendment to securities laws may be considered, - 

 

“Section….  

(1) Every person who, directly or indirectly, controls any person liable under 

any provision of this Act or of any rule or regulation made thereunder, shall 

also  be  liable  jointly  and  severally  with  and  to  the  same  extent  as  such 

controlled  person  in  any  action  brought  under  this  Act  or  any  rule  or 

regulation made thereunder, unless the controlling person acted in good faith 

and  did  not  directly  or  indirectly  induce  or  enable  the  act  or  omission 

constituting the violation or cause of action.  

Explanation 1. - No person shall be liable as a controlling person solely by 

reason of employing another person, but the liability of such employer may 

 

 
Page | - 285 -  

 

 

be  subject  to  sub-section  (1)  where  he  is  under  a  duty  to  control  but 

intentionally or by gross negligence fails to exercise control.  

Explanation 2. – In this section ‘control’ includes direct and indirect positive 

acts or omissions that amount to control. 

 

(2) It is hereby clarified that it shall be and always has been unlawful for any 

person, directly or indirectly, to do any act or thing which would be unlawful 

for such person to do under the provisions of this Act or any rule or regulation 

made thereunder, through or by means of any other person.  

 

(3)  Any  person  who  knowingly  or  in  absence  of  good  faith  provides 

substantial assistance to another person in violation of a provision of this Act, 

or  of  any  rule  or  regulation  made  thereunder,  shall  be  deemed  to  be  in 

violation of such provision to the same extent as the person to whom such 

assistance is provided. 

Explanation. - For the purpose of this section, nothing is said to be done in 

“good faith” which is done without due care and attention. 

 

(4) The Board may proceed against all or any of the persons who may be liable 

jointly for the violation of securities laws and non-initiation of proceedings 

under securities laws against any particular person shall not by itself amount 

to discharge or acquittal of such person and such person shall remain liable 

to be proceeded against in appropriate proceedings, if the Board so deems 

fit.” 

 

The recommended provision is neutral and applies to all kinds of violations, not 

just insider trading. Further, it does not declare that trivial abettors are not liable, 

but rather focuses on imposing the liability of such persons ‘on’ the person who 

controlled  them.  The  Board  would  then  be  free  to  concentrate  its  enforcement 

action  against  the  main  persons-  persons  who  employed  others  and  those  who 

provided substantial assistance i.e. the ‘smart’ enforcement through action on the 

 
Page | - 286 -  

 

 

 

 

main accused and enforce securities laws in a time bound manner to protect the 

interest of investors rather than expend its limited resources and time on pursuing 

the entire chain of defaulters. 

6.  GENERAL  PRINCIPLES  RELATING  TO  QUANTIFICATION  OF  DISPROPORTIONATE 

GAIN AND LOSS CAUSED TO INVESTORS AS A RESULT OF THE DEFAULT  

I.  The  statutory  position  in  USA  and  India  is  the  same.  The  gain  and  loss 

quantification is limited  only to that amount which is as a result of the default. 

Indeed, simply to take the definition of “gain” without limiting it to gain “resulting 

from the default” would lead to absurd results. It is not all the defaulter(s) stock 

gains-over an entire lifetime of stock trading, but only the stock gains “resulting 

from the default.”145 

 

II.  Defaults by company personnel throw up some interesting issues for the purpose 

of quantification. Given the competitive nature of capitalistic markets wherein the 

corporate insiders may indulge in such activities to ensure that they can continue 

in their corporations and/or obtain higher compensation in the present or future. 

In this respect the issue of quantification of profit made by the corporate insider 

may not be clear, as it may be in the form of salary, bonuses and stock options. In 

this  respect  the  Committee  notes  the  global  practice  of  disgorging  such 

compensation or a relevant part thereof. [The right of an employer to dismiss for 

cause  and  cancel  or  claw-back  compensation  already  given  or  promised  is 

different  from  the  right  of  the  Board  to  quantify  relevant  gain  and  disgorge, 

though both arise only after the violation has come to light. Clawback undertaken 

by the employer will not completely nullify disgorgement (as the possibility of 

overlap  is  limited  to  situations  where  the  salary  and  bonuses  paid  by  the 

                                                           
145 See United States v Mooney, (2005) (8th Cir.) 425 F.3d 1093, available at < https://casetext.com/case/us-v-mooney-
10>; United States v. Nacchio (2009) (10th Cir.) 573 F.3d 1062, available at <https://casetext.com/case/us-v-nacchio-
11>. 

 

 
Page | - 287 -  

 

 

employer amounts to the illegal gain) by the Board and vice versa as neither is a 

voluntary or self-remedial process rather a contentious one which the defaulter 

is  made  to  comply  unwillingly  nor  are  they  a  replacement  for  each  other,  the 

jurisprudence  surrounding  both  is  different].  Bonus  which  are  dependent  on 

earnings  can  be  recalculated  on  restated  financials  after  the  fraudulent 

information  is  out  and  compared  with  the  bonuses  paid  out  on  the  original 

reported financials. However in case of multiple financial years this is calculated 

on a percentage basis as such fraudulent information can have cumulative effect.146 

In  other  cases  where  no  such  clear  linkage  exists,  an  approximation  may  be 

adopted.  

 

In cases where executive compensation includes acquisition of securities under any 

options or grants, if there is a corrective disclosure before the executive liquidates 

his  position,  then  the  grant  generates  a  loss  measured  using  the  Black  Scholes 

method of valuation147 (to take account for possibility of early exercise) caused by 

the fraud that should be offset with other gains, if any, from the fraud. In case there 

is an increase in price due to disclosure before the position is liquidated, the gain 

would have to be measured by using the difference in inflation per share between 

grant and sale.148 In case of other employee benefits such as retirement schemes, 

restrictive stock grants, etc. experts use analyses similar to those used for bonus 

and option compensation.149  

                                                           
146  See,  Elaine  Buckberg  and  Frederick  G.  Dunbar,  Disgorgement:  Punitive  Demands  and  Remedial  Offers,  The 
Business Lawyer Vol. 63, No. 2 (February 2008), 347, 362-369, available at <https://www.jstor.org/stable/40688470> 
for example based on the SEC methodology for calculating bonuses to be disgorged. 

147 This is the most common method of valuation of employee stock options in India and consistent with Ind AS 102. 
The other methods known as the Monte Carlo method and Binomial methods are not in much use in india for valuation 
of securities. See, <https://numericaconsulting.com/blog/3-methods-for-valuation-of-employee-stock-options/>. Also 
see, Ministry of Corporate Affairs: Ind AS 102 including the principles for valuation of share options to employees 
available at <http://mca.gov.in/Ministry/pdf/Ind_AS102.pdf>. 
148  See,  Elaine  Buckberg  and  Frederick  G.  Dunbar,  Disgorgement:  Punitive  Demands  and  Remedial  Offers,  The 
Business Lawyer Vol. 63, No. 2 (February 2008), 347, 372-, available at <https://www.jstor.org/stable/40688470> for 
example based disgorgement based on employee stock options. 
149 Ibid. 

 

 

 
Page | - 288 -  

 

The  issue  of  loss  caused  by  corporate  insiders  is  far  more  complex.  Where 

corporate insiders, including promoters misuse corporate facilities for self-profit, 

their liability for secret profits is well settled in law. This is not limited to just the 

corporate  insider  who  makes  the  secret  profit  but  a  contribution  claim  could 

succeed  against  another  corporate  insider  who  took  no  steps  to  prevent  a 

misapplication of the company’s property by its director.150 Where a concealment 

of interest in another organization, directly or indirectly controlled by the insider 

or  its  related  parties  is  made,  who  benefits  from  such  transactions,  the liability 

extends  to  all  transactions,  unless  proven  to  be  independent  by  the  corporate 

insider; and the corporate entity which benefits from the same is also liable to the 

full extent.151 When the related party transaction results in a loss, the Companies 

Act, 2013 expressly provides under Section 188 (4) & (5) requiring the corporate 

of 

2013 

SC 

3191, 

and 

India, 

AIR 

Exchange 

Board 

(Deceased),  [2017]  EWCA  Civ  256 

                                                           
150  Clegg  v  Pache 
(UK  Court  of  Appeals);  available  at 
<http://www.bailii.org/ew/cases/EWCA/Civ/2017/256.html>. (Also see N Narayanan v Adjudicating Officer of the 
Securities 
at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/1413521982829.pdf>;  See  MSI  v 
Raven, [2013] EWHC 3147 (Comm), available at <https://www.bailii.org/ew/cases/EWHC/Comm/2013/3147.html> 
: “It has long been established that a trustee who knowingly permits a co-trustee to commit a breach of trust is also in 
breach of trust. A director who has knowledge of his fellow director's misapplication of company property and stands 
idly by, taking no steps to prevent it, will thus not only breach the duty of reasonable care and skill (which is not 
fiduciary in character): Ultraframe v Fielding [2005] EHWC 1638 (Ch), [1300]-[1302]), but will himself be treated 
as party to the breach of fiduciary duty by his fellow director in respect of that misapplication by having authorised or 
permitted it: Walker v Stones [2001] QB 902, 921D-E; Gidman v Barron and Moore [2003] EWHC 153 (Ch) at [131]; 
Neville v Krikorian [2006] EWCA Civ 943, [49]-[51] and Lexi Holdings v Luqman (No. 1) [2007] EWHC 2652 (Ch) 
at [201]-[205].”) 

available 

151 Ibid:  

 

“Mr Dagnall relied upon conventional, long established, legal principles for this part of his appeal. … In 
relation to the burden of proof, he submitted that the present case fell well within the "Armory v Delamirie" 
principle [Armory was awarded the maximum value that a jewel of that form which was stolen could have 
as the original could not be examined (under the principle that a wrongdoer should not be able to derive 
gain  from  the  effects  of  his  wrongdoing  due  to  uncertainty  of  damages)]  (supplied),  as  applied  by 
Longmore  LJ  in Keefe  v  The  Isle  of  Man  Steam  Packet  Company  Limited[2010]  EWCA  Civ  683 at 
paragraph 19, namely  that a  defendant  who has  in breach  of duty  made it difficult or impossible for a 
claimant to adduce relevant evidence must run the risk of adverse factual findings. …it should have been 
directed on the basis of a starting point that all FPL's (beneficiary company) (supplied) profits during the 
relevant  period  should  be  accountable,  subject  to  the  exclusion  of  such  transactions  or  profits  as  the 
defendants  could  show  were  independently  undertaken  or  earned,  (emphasis  supplied)…  Mr  Dagnall 
satisfied me that the case was also put in that much simpler, more general and legally principled way (as 
he presented it on appeal), at least in the closing written submissions to which the parties and the court had 
recourse  on  the  final  day  of  the  trial,  headed  "Summary  of  the  case  in  law  against  first  and  third 
defendants"” 

 
Page | - 289 -  

 

insider to indemnify the losses to the company.152 In some cases, the profits made 

may be insignificant to the losses caused by a related party transaction, which goes 

sour. If any loss or depreciation results as a result of a related party transaction, no 

question  of  any  foreseeability  or  remoteness  arises  and  the  corporate  insider  is 

automatically liable for the loss caused to the investors.153 

 

III. 

In case of illegal activities, credit for the monies/assets returned to avoid detection 

or after detection of the illegal activity is not to be considered for levy of penalty154 

or  if  payments  are  made  in  respect  of  initial  investments  to  entice  additional 

investments  and  conceal  the  default.155  However,  the  same  may  be  considered 

while taking into account any disgorgement obligation. 

 

                                                           
152 Also see, Mahesan v. Malaysian Govt. Officers Co-operative Housing Society Ltd [1978] 1 MLJ 149; [1979] AC 
374, [1978] 2 All ER 405 (Privy Council) (The appellant was a director and secretary of the respondent co-operative 
society. He brought land for the society at overvalue. The appellant knew of the land being overvalued however he 
failed to inform the society. The society discovered the fact only after the sale was done and discovered the appellant 
had received a  secret commission  from  the vendor.  As  a result,  the  Privy  Council held  that the respondent  could 
recover either bribe or the amount of the actual loss suffered by it as a consequence of entering into the contract). 

153 Duckwari plc (No. 2) Re: (1998) 2 BCLC 315: (1998) 3 WLR 913 (CA). See also, Duckwari plc (No. 3) Re: (1999) 
1 BCLC 168: (1999) 2 WLR 1059 (CA). (The position of a director is fiduciary in nature and similar where a trustee 
makes an unauthorized investment). 
154  See  US  Sentencing  Guidelines  p  97,  available  at  <https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/guidelines-
manual/2016/GLMFull.pdf>; and Primer Loss Calculations under §2B1.1(b)(1) of the US Sentencing Guidelines pp 
27-32, available at <https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/training/primers/2016_Primer_Loss.pdf> 
155 The US Sentencing Guidelines take into account ‘intended’ loss as well as ‘actual’ loss, whereas Indian securities 
laws explicitly refer only to actual loss to investors. However, securities laws do not exclude the application of any 
other relevant factor for consideration. [See Siddharth Chaturvedi v SEBI, (SC) (Civil Appeal No. 14730 of 2015 
decided  on  March  14,  2016);  Adjudicating  Officer,  SEBI  v  Bhavesh  Pabari,  2019  (3)  SCALE  447,  available  at 
<https://www.supremecourtofindia.nic.in/supremecourt/2013/36291/36291_2013_Judgement_28-Feb-2019.pdf> 
and Finance Act, 2017] This principle for not giving credit to certain repayments is based on the two grounds, namely 
(i) ‘intended loss’ (ii) the payments are essentially part of the fraudulent scheme. Both grounds hold good in respect 
of Indian securities laws and hence the recommendation, since intended loss is loss that is foreseen by the defaulter or 
hence  foreseeable  and  relevant.  See  United  States  v.  Dobish,  102  F.3d  760  (6th  Cir.  1996),  available  at 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/731240/united-states-v-michael-dobish/> (An investment manager normally 
occupies a position of trust. Mr. Dobish constructively held such a position, based on his own representations, and he 
abused  that  position  to  defraud  his  victims.  The  court  also  found  that  money  was  returned  only  as  a  means  of 
perpetuating the fraud, and that the scheme would have been continued indefinitely had the victims not discovered 
what  was  going  on.);  United  States  v.  Mucciante,  21  F.3d  1228 
(2d  Cir.  1994),  available  at 
<https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/appellate-courts/F3/21/1228/622994/>  (Mucciante's  sentence  was  properly 
enhanced. Although he returned some of Berger's  money, and repaid Yohay and Horowitz, he did so as part of a 
meretricious effort to maintain their confidences. He is therefore not entitled to credit for sums returned, or for sums 
spent for Berger's benefit. Finally, it is of course irrelevant that Mucciante took the money to impress people, rather 
than for a more sinister purpose). 

 

 
Page | - 290 -  

 

IV. 

In case of costs incurred for running an illegal activity, no benefit is required to be 

given  for  such  costs,  including  fixed  costs.156  However,  direct  trading  costs 

(including securities transaction tax) may be deductible depending on the facts and 

circumstances of each case, as direct transaction-specific costs.157 In disgorgement 

cases where illicit profits are used for payment of income taxes unrelated to such 

profits  no  such  credit  is  required  to  be  given,  however  if  profits  are  used  for 

payment of taxes related to such profits then it is discretionary to grant such credit 

for taxes paid, i.e. in cases where the restitution is possible to identified investors 

no such tax credit should be allowed and in case the disgorgement is due to the 

Board’s  Investor  Protection  and  Education  Fund,  the  defaulter  may  be  allowed 

credit if such taxes can be computed easily and information is provided or else in 

all such cases the defaulter must approach the Income Tax authorities for relief 

instead  of  the  Board.158  In  case  of  penalty  calculation,  profit  made  is  only  a 

barometer for assessing penalty rather than for the purpose of refund/restitution 

                                                           
156  See  Federal  Trade  Commission  v.  Bronson  Partners,  LLC,  654  F.3d  359  (2d  Cir.  2011),  available  at 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/223605/ftc-v-bronson-partners-llc/>: 

“We need not dwell long on this argument, as it is well established that defendants in a disgorgement action 
are "not entitled to deduct costs associated with committing their illegal acts." SEC v. Cavanagh, No. 98-
Civ.-1818-DLC, 2004  WL  1594818,  at  30  (S.D.N.Y.  July  16,  2004), aff'd, 445  F.3d  105 (2d  Cir.2006). 
Although  we sometimes refer casually to the power of district  courts to "require  wrongdoers  to disgorge 
fraudulently obtained profits," Official Comm. of Unsecured Creditors of WorldCom, Inc. v. SEC, 467 F.3d 
73, 81 (2d Cir.2006) (emphasis added), that is because in many securities fraud cases the wrongdoer receives 
no direct monetary transfer from his victims. Where that is true, the defendant's ill-gotten gains are equal to 
the  profits  of  his  unlawful  trading.  But  where  the  profits  from  fraud  and  the  defendant's  ill-gotten  gains 
diverge, the district court may award the larger sum. In SEC v. DiBella, for example, we rejected an argument 
that "disgorgement is limited to profits reaped through [the defendant's] securities law violations," such that 
a defendant who was paid to assist another's violation of Section 10(b) could not be required to disgorge his 
fees. 587 F.3d 553, 572 (2d Cir.2009) (internal quotation marks omitted). And in Verity, we explained that 
although  the  defendants-appellants  were  not  liable  for  consumer  payments  that  never  reached  them,  "the 
district court should determine the amount of the ... total billings that the defendants-appellants received ..., 
without deducting monies paid by the defendants-appellants to other parties." 443 F.3d at 68. Likewise, at 
least three other circuits measure unjust gains in FTC actions by revenues instead of profits. See FTC v. Direct 
Mktg. Concepts, Inc., 624 F.3d 1, 14-16 (1st Cir.2010); FTC v. Kuykendall, 371 F.3d 745, 765-67 (10th Cir. 
2004) (holding that unjust gains should be calculated based on a defendant's "gross receipts"); Febre, 128 
F.3d at 536.” 

157  See  SEC  Administrative  Decision  in  the  matter  of  Curtis A  Peterson,  pp 6-7,  discussing  several  authorities  in 
respect  of  discretionary  deduction 
transaction  specific  costs  and  denying  others,  available  at 
<https://www.sec.gov/alj/aljdec/2017/id1124jsp.pdf>. 
158  See  SEC  Administrative  Decision  in  the  matter  of  Curtis A  Peterson,  pp 5-8,  discussing  several  authorities  in 
respect  of  non-deductibility  of  taxes,  available  at  <https://www.sec.gov/alj/aljdec/2017/id1124jsp.pdf>.  Also  see, 
Elaine Buckberg and Frederick  G. Dunbar,  Disgorgement: Punitive Demands and Remedial Offers,  The Business 
Lawyer Vol. 63, No. 2 (February 2008), 347, at 381, available at <https://www.jstor.org/stable/40688470>. 

for 

 

 
Page | - 291 -  

 

or  recovery of  the disproportionate  profit,  hence  taxes  and  other  costs  incurred 

after the default are of no relevance and no credit is required.  

 

V.  Where the investors’ property is destroyed or lost e.g. in case of share certificates, 

the  fair  market  value  when  the  default  was  detected  by  the  investor  or  the 

authority, whichever is earlier can be considered or the cost of replacement can be 

considered.159  In  this  respect  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  of  India  in  is  recent 

judgment  in 63 Moons Technologies Ltd. v  U.O.I & Ors.160 has inter alia noted 

various methods of valuation of shares as follows,- 

“71. In Miheer H. Mafatlal v. Mafatlal Industries Ltd., (1997) 1 SCC 579, in 

the context of a voluntary amalgamation made under Sections 391 to 394 of 

the Companies Act, this Court went into share valuation. This Court held: 

“40. …… It must at once be stated that valuation of shares is a technical 

and  complex  problem  which  can  be  appropriately 

left  to  the 

consideration of  experts in the field of  accountancy. Pennington in his 

Principles of Company Law mentions four factors which had to be kept 

in mind in the valuation of shares: 

“(1) Capital Cover,  

(2) Yield,  

(3) Earning Capacity, and  

(4) Marketability. 

For  arriving  at  the  fair  value  of  share,  three  well-known  methods  are 

applied: 

(1)  The  manageable  profit-basis  method  (the  Earning  Per  Share 

Method)  

(2) The networth method or the break value method, and  

(3) The market value method.”  

                                                           
159  See  US  Sentencing  Guidelines  p  96,  available  at  <https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/guidelines-
manual/2016/GLMFull.pdf>. 
160 
<https://www.sci.gov.in/supremecourt/2018/4493/4493_2018_Judgement_30-Apr-2019.pdf>. 

30.04.2019 

available 

Judgment 

dated 

at 

 

 
Page | - 292 -  

 

What is clear from the various methods of valuation of shares, when it comes 

to  such  valuation  qua  the  transferor  and  transferee  company,  is  that  the 

market value method is one method in which shares can be valued so that 

their equivalent can then be provided for in the amalgamated company. This 

would be nothing other than what those shares were worth in the market on 

a  particular  day  or  an  average  taken  within  a  certain  period.  What  is 

important to note is that the market value of shares is market value of shares 

reflective  of  their  economic  value,  being  an  interest  measured  by a  sum  of 

money, is not something that is completely alien to determining the rights of 

or interest of a shareholder in the transferor or transferee company, as the 

case may be.” 

 

VI. 

In some cases the estimate of loss may be more or less equal to the illegal gains 

derived, even though such monies available for disgorgement may have dwindled 

or lost in value by the time the default is detected or recovery initiated. E.g. in case 

of unauthorized investment schemes. 

 

VII. 

In case of activities requiring registration, recognition or any other authorization 

by  the  Board  are  conducted  without  requisite  approvals,  the  fees  due  to  the 

regulator which would otherwise be payable and have not been paid shall amount 

to loss avoided and counted towards illegal gains. 

 

VIII.  Technological firms nowadays seek to issue securities to the public to raise cheap 

capital.  Such  firms  have  trade  secrets  or  other  proprietary  information  in  the 

nature of unpublished price sensitive information, which needs to be protected. 

Loss of such information can result in substantial loss of stock valuation. In case 

of misuse of such information, an estimate of illegal gains or loss caused may be 

based on the estimate of the fair market value of such information161 failing which 

                                                           
161 See International Accounting Standards Board standard 38 (IAS 38) read with International Financial Reporting 
Standard 3 (Business Combinations) and Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 38 (Intangible Assets). 

 

 
Page | - 293 -  

 

the cost of developing that information may be used, if available with the victim 

company,  and  where  the  company  suffers  a  loss  of  business,  including  loss  of 

business opportunity.162 The principles for calculation of loss of profit including 

loss of business are well understood and may be applied in such instances.163 Some 

such methods are,- 

i.  When  the  harm  is  for  a  finite  period  of  time  and  is  related  to  a  separately 

identifiable  cash  flow,  a  lost  profits  approach  is  preferred  due  to  the  finite 

period of damages. This  approach represents the difference between profits 

the  victim  would  have  attained,  “but  for”  the  harmful  event,  and  profits 

actually  attained.  Profits  can  be  defined  variously  depending  on  the  venue, 

facts  and  circumstances  of  the  underlying  engagement.  The  calculated  lost 

profits  are  then  adjusted  for  mitigation,  if  any.  A  lost  profits  analysis  is 

commonly employed in breach of contract, intellectual property and general 

commercial litigation cases. It may be done using,- 

a.  The sales projection method which compares forecasted profits before 

the harmful event to actual profits after the harmful event; 

b.  The  before-and-after  method,  which  compares  profits  before  the 

harmful event to profits after the harmful event, is appropriate for many 

businesses; 

c.  The  accounting  for  profits  method  is  based  on  incremental  sales  or 

profits achieved by the defaulter as the result of the harmful event. It 

should be reasonably certain that the victim would have attained the 

same amount of sales or profits as the defaulter, “but for” the harmful 

event; 

d.  The  yardstick  method  compares  profits  to  a  quantifiable  yardstick, 

before  and  after  the  harmful  event.  This  method  is  typically  used  in 

industries  where  profit  margins  are  closely  tied  to  a  measurable 

yardstick such as the price of raw material; 

                                                           
162  See  US  Sentencing  Guidelines  p  97,  available  at  <https://www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/guidelines-
manual/2016/GLMFull.pdf>. 
163 See <https://www.alvarezandmarsal.com/ar/insights/damages-measured-lost-profits-or-lost-business-value> 

 

 
Page | - 294 -  

 

 

e.  The  market  share  method  is  based  on  the market  share  the  plaintiff 

would have attained, “but for” the harmful event. This method may be 

suitable for industries where reliable data regarding the overall market 

is readily available. 

 

ii. 

In circumstances where the loss of earnings is considered or assumed to be 

permanent and into perpetuity, or where a business is destroyed completely, a 

lost  business  value  approach  is  generally  appropriate.  This  approach  is 

commonly  applied 

in  business  destruction,  shareholder  oppression, 

dissenting  shareholder  and  tax  matters.  A  business  valuation  is  performed 

before  the  date  of  harm  and  after  the  date  of  harm,  with  the  resulting 

difference  regarded  as  the  lost  business  value,  this  may  be  done  using  the 

following methods,- 

a.  The  asset-based  approach  involves  analyzing  the  plaintiff’s  tangible 

and intangible assets net of liabilities. This approach does not directly 

address the operating earnings of the business and, as such, is useful in 

estimating the value of a non-operating business where cash flows are 

nominal, such as a holding company or an asset-intensive business; 

b.  The  market  approach  uses  pricing  multiples  taken  from  guideline 

companies  or  transactions  and  applies  these  multiples  to  the 

appropriate performance measure of the company being valued; 

c.  The  income  approach  calculates  a  business’s  value  by  applying  a 

discount  or  capitalization  rate  to  a  measure  of  its  expected  future 

earnings to arrive at a present value of the future benefit streams. This 

approach is commonly used in estimating the value of both publicly-

traded and closely-held businesses. 

 

In any event, these losses are generally relevant only when a particular company is 

targeted, causing indirect loss to share-holders. The losses may be calculated using 

the assistance of the person impacted. 

 

 
Page | - 295 -  

 

IX.  Technology  has  changed  the  way  transactions  are  done  and  has  created  newer 

modes  of  committing  plain  vanilla  defaults.  Front-running  is  essentially  the 

placing of trades ahead of another trade order based on prior knowledge of such 

subsequent  order  to  take  advantage  of  the  price  change  on  account  of  such 

subsequent order vis-à-vis other traders. The US SEC views co-location services as 

a material aspect of the operation of the facilities of an exchange.164 Co-location 

enables  access  to  legalized  data  feed  in  a  way  that  counters  geographical 

disadvantages  where  the  trader  is  allowed  to  access  stock  prices  a  split  second 

before  the  general  market  by  being  ‘closer’  to  the  exchange.165  However,  when 

exchange officials, actively or passively, provide preferential access to a particular 

person where trade data is actually received before others in a discriminatory and 

unfair  manner,  trading  on  such  preferential  information  may  result  in  trading 

ahead of the market. In such cases, the advantage does not arise from the server 

being  co-located  at  the  exchange,  rather  the  advantage  arises  from  prior 

dissemination  of  the  information  to  a  particular  person  who  has  been  given 

preferential access to the co-location server vis-à-vis others. 

 

X.  Where  securities  are  purchased  and  sold  during  the  default  period  it  is  easy  to 

calculate  the  realized  profit.  Quantification  of  profit  includes  notional  loss.166 

                                                           
164  See  Exchange  Act  Release  No.  34-61358,  75  Fed.  Reg.  3594,  3610  &  fn.  76  (Jan.  21,  2010),  available  at 
<https://www.sec.gov/rules/concept/2010/34-61358.pdf>. 
165 In Re: Barclays Liquidity Cross and High Frequency Trading Litigation (Opinion and Order, SDNY, 14-md-02589, 
August 
<http://securities.stanford.edu/filings-
documents/1052/NA00_01/2015826_o01x_14MD02589.pdf>. 

available 

8-9, 

at 

25, 

2015), 

pp 

166  Dushyant  N.  Dalal  &  Anr  v  SEBI,  SAT  Appeal  No.  182  of  2009  decided  on  12.11.2010,  p  9,  available  at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/satorders/dalal.pdf >: 

“The next argument  of the learned senior counsel is that the Board was in  error in taking into account the 
unrealized  gains  for the shares  which are still being  held by  the appellants and the  said  amount  should be 
omitted for calculating the gains. It is true that the appellants did not sell all the shares that were cornered by 
them through the key operators and that some of them are still lying in their demat accounts. The whole time 
member in the impugned order has worked out the notional gain with reference to the closing price of the shares 
on the first day of listing and deducted the issue price therefrom. As at present advised, we can think of no 
better way of calculating the notional gain made by the appellants. Even if there is a better method of calculating 
the notional gains, we do not think that the method adopted by the whole time member is in any way arbitrary 
or unfair calling for our interference. Surely the appellants cornered the shares through illegal means and they 
cannot be heard to say that notional profits should not be worked out merely because they continue to hold 
 
Page | - 296 -  

 

 

 

However  complexity  arises  in  the  cases  of  notional  profit167  or  where  the 

acquisition price is not available or in cases where the illegal profit may be mixed 

with legal profit. Further, trading need not result in net cash positive transaction. 

Gain in the form of undue advantage (loss avoided) will also arise in cases where 

the  default  was  done  to  lower  the  possible  losses  than  would  have  otherwise 

resulted from market conditions, e.g. if the historical cost price was much higher 

than the prevailing price  at the beginning of the default period. In such cases  a 

variation of the averaging period may be used to arrive at a suitable fair notional 

price (acquisition or sale)  to arrive at the difference between cost and purchase 

value. 

XI.  TAX EVASION AND GAIN QUANTIFICATION: Cases where the primary purpose of a 

scheme is tax evasion, rather than defrauding investors in securities markets is a 

particular  case.  In  such  cases  the  securities  regulator  may  have  to  deal  with 

concerns that are unrelated to securities markets. Such transactions if continued 

unabated, risks the misuse of securities markets for defrauding other authorities. 

In 2014 the US SEC succeeded in  disgorging the profits of a fraudulent scheme 

[setting  up  foreign  trust  accounts  to  hide  beneficial  ownership  and  trade  in 

securities] inter alia on the basis that federal taxes were avoided even when the US 

Internal Revenue Services had not sought to recover the unpaid taxes and inspite 

                                                           

some of them. They cannot be allowed to unjustly enrich themselves. We, therefore, reject this argument of the 
appellants as well.” 

167 See SEC v. Shapiro, 494 F.2d 1301 (2d Cir. 1974), available at <https://casetext.com/case/securities-and-exchange-
commission-v-shapiro>,  the  defendant  continued  to  hold  stock  he  had  fraudulently  obtained  after  the  inside 
information on which he had acquired the stock became public. The district court ordered the defendant to disgorge 
his profits computed as of the day the inside information was publicly disclosed. The defendant argued that such a 
disgorgement constituted a penalty because he would be forced to give up more than the stock was actually worth 
when it was sold, as its value had dropped after the inside information became public. The Court of Appeals disagreed 
with defendant's logic, noting that:  

“[Defendant's]  additional  losses  resulted  not  from  any  penalty  imposed  by  the  court  but  from  his  unwise 
investment decision to keep the stock after February 18 [the date the inside information became public].  
… 
[A]  contrary  holding  would  create  a  serious  anomaly  that  might  encourage  insider  trading.  To  require 
disgorgement only of actual profits in cases where the price of the stock subsequently fell would create a heads-
I-win-tails-you-lose opportunity for the violator: he could keep subsequent profits but not suffer subsequent 
losses.” 

 

 
Page | - 297 -  

 

 

of there being no statutory basis or precedent of using unpaid taxes as a measure 

of disgorgement.168  

In SEC v Wyly,169 the court inter alia held as follows, -  

“The SEC arrives at its proposed measure of disgorgement by 1) calculating the 

total profits earned on the sale of the Issuer securities by the IOM trusts, and 

2) approximating the amount of taxes that… would have been paid on those 

profits  had  the  Wylys  accurately  disclosed  beneficial  ownership  of  the 

securities.  For  the  following  reasons,  I  conclude  that  this  is  an  appropriate 

measure….  On  June  13,  2013,  I  held  that  the  SEC  was  not  foreclosed,  as  a 

matter  of  law,  from  seeking  disgorgement  in  an  amount  equivalent  to  the 

federal  income  taxes  the  Wylys  would  have  been  required  to  pay  if  they 

properly disclosed beneficial ownership over the Issuer securities. "There is no 

explicit prohibition, either in the Tax Code or in the Exchange Act, on using tax 

benefits as a measure of unjust enrichment in other contexts" and no "express 

limitation  on  the  SEC's  authority  to  calculate  and  disgorge  any  "reasonable 

approximation  of  profits  causally  connected  to  the  violation."  (emphasis 

supplied) ….  

 

Congress has granted exclusive authority to the Secretary of the Treasury to 

assess and "collect the taxes imposed by the internal revenue laws," who has, 

in turn, delegated that authority to the IRS. Section 7401 of the Tax Code states 

that  "[n]o  civil  action  for  the  collection  or  recovery  of  taxes,  or  of  any  fine, 

penalty or forfeiture, shall be commenced unless the Secretary authorizes or 

sanctions the proceedings and the Attorney General [of the United States] or 

his delegates directs that the action be commenced." 

 

                                                           
168 See <https://www.jdsupra.com/legalnews/sdny-judge-permits-novel-theory-and-86626/>. 
169 S.E.C. v. Wyly, 56 F.Supp.3d 394 (2014) 1:10-cv-05760-SAS, ECF 476 at 67 n.218 (S.D.N.Y. Sept. 25, 2014) 
available at <https://www.leagle.com/decision/infdco20140925e94>. 

 

 
Page | - 298 -  

 

 

As I previously held, "this is not a civil action for the collection or recovery of 

taxes.  .  .  Rather,  this  is  a  civil  action  for  securities  law  violations, 

the remedy for which is measured by the amount of taxes avoided" as a result 

of the defendants' securities violations."[A] tax is an enforced contribution to 

provide for the support of the government. “Disgorgement is a discretionary 

and  equitable  remedy  aimed  at  preventing  unjust  enrichment.  Measuring 

unjust  enrichment  by  approximating  avoided  taxes  does  not  transform  an 

order  of  disgorgement  into  an  assessment  of  tax  liability….  Thus,  unlawful 

gains may be measured in any number of different ways. For example, courts 

commonly order defendants to disgorge not only the proceeds of a fraud or the 

profits  of  an  unlawful trade,  but  also  salary  and  bonuses  earned  during  the 

period of a fraud, and amounts equivalent to losses avoided as a result of the 

securities  violations.  (emphasis  supplied)  Disgorgement  "is  a  remedy  that 

gives  courts  flexibility"  to  determine  the  appropriate  remedy  "to  fit  the 

wrongful conduct."…  

 

The  SEC  is  not  seeking  disgorgement  equivalent  to  the  unpaid  taxes 

for all profits  earned  by  the  IOM  trusts.  Rather,  the  SEC's  disgorgement 

amount  pertains  specifically  to  the  taxes  avoided  on  profits  relating  to  the 

exercise of options and sale of stock in four companies in which the Wylys were 

influential insiders. The jury found that the Wylys were beneficial owners of all 

of  the  Issuer  securities—from  the  time  the  options  were  transferred  to  the 

trusts to the time the trusts exercised the options or otherwise acquired stock 

to the time they were sold. The jury also found that the Wylys' pervasive failure 

to  disclose  beneficial  ownership  constituted  securities  fraud.  There  is  no 

evidence  in  the  record  that  the  purpose  of  this  fraud  was  to  manipulate  or 

distort  the  market.  (emphasis  supplied)  There is ample  evidence,  however, 

that  the  driving  purpose  of  the  securities  fraud  was  to  conceal  the  Wylys' 

relationship to the IOM trusts and preserve the preferential tax treatment on 

secret offshore profits for as long as possible. … 

 

 
Page | - 299 -  

 

 

This measure of disgorgement reflects the unique circumstances of this case. 

The  Wylys  engaged  in  securities  fraud  to  conceal  their  relationship  to  and 

control  of  the  IOM  trusts  in  order  to  maintain  the  secrecy  of  the  offshore 

system and preserve their tax benefits. The unlawful gains causally related to 

the securities violations found by the jury, is an amount equivalent to the taxes 

avoided  on  the  profits  the  Wylys  realized  on  the  sale  of  Issuer  securities. 

(emphasis supplied)” 

On appeal, the aforesaid ruling of the District Court was upheld by the US Court of 

Appeals170, inter alia holding as follows, - 

“In  its  September  opinion  explaining  its  disgorgement  order,  the  District 

Court emphasized that “this is not a civil action for the collection or recovery 

of taxes. Rather, this is a civil action for securities law violations, the remedy 

for  which  is  measured  by  the  amount  of  taxes  avoided  as  a  result  of  the 

defendants'  securities  violations.” The  Court  made  clear  that  “[m]easuring 

unjust  enrichment  by  approximating  avoided  taxes  does  not  transform  an 

order of disgorgement into an assessment of tax liability.” 

 

Since  the  tax  avoidance sum  merely  served  the purpose  of  quantifying  the 

disgorgement remedy, rather than forming the basis for liability itself, it is 

irrelevant that—or whether—tax liability is non-transferable. What matters is 

that  the  gains  received  were  ill-gotten  in  violation  of  securities  laws,  a 

determination  that  has  already  been  made  by  the  jury  at  trial.  (emphasis 

supplied) That conclusion is not disturbed by the particular measure used by 

the District Court to order equitable relief. Here, the District Court's adoption 

of two alternative measures of disgorgement in its September and December 

opinions makes the point even more salient. The Relief Defendants challenge 

                                                           
170  SEC  v  Donald  R  Miller,  Executor  and  Ors,  No. 14-4261-cv (2d  Cir.  Dec.  18,  2015),  available  at 
<https://caselaw.findlaw.com/us-2nd-circuit/1720954.html>. 

 

 
Page | - 300 -  

 

 

only the tax measure set forth in the September opinion. In fact, the particular 

method of measurement used is immaterial.”  

 

Similar issue arose in India, in the case of Rakhi Trading, The Hon’ble Supreme 

Court of India171 did not determine the issue of tax evasion as the show cause notice 

was silent on that aspect but the following observations are noteworthy: 

 

“Per Kurian, J: 

SAT held that these trades were for the purpose of tax planning which is not 

violative of any regulation. We are not inclined to get in to the issue of tax 

planning  as  it  was  not  mentioned  in  the  show  cause  notices.  (emphasis 

supplied) 

 

We find it difficult to appreciate the stand taken by the SAT which is endorsed 

by  the  learned  senior  counsel  appearing  for  the  respondents.  Mr. 

Chidambaram,  learned  senior  counsel  appearing  for  Rakhi  Trading  argues 

that the SAT decision is valid and proper. Reliance is also placed on the case 

of Ketan Parekh (supra) in which SAT held that synchronised trades are not 

per se illegal. As far as reversal of trades is concerned, the senior counsel has 

sought to distinguish Ketan Parekh (supra) as it pertained to dealings in the 

cash  segment  whereas  the  present  case  deals  with  the  F&O  segment.  The 

learned senior counsel has strenuously argued that no rules of the game have 

been violated. 

… 

In the instant case, one party booked gains and the other party booked a loss. 

Nobody intentionally trades for loss. An intentional trading for loss per se, is 

not a genuine dealing in securities. The platform of the stock exchange has 

been used for a non-genuine trade. Trading is always with the aim to make 

                                                           
171  SEBI  v  Rakhi  Trading  Pvt.  ltd.,  C.A.  3174-3177  &  3180/2011.  Order  dated  08.02.2018,  available  on 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/feb-2018/1518429932105.pdf>. 

 

 
Page | - 301 -  

 

 

profits. But if one party consistently makes loss and that too in pre-planned 

and  rapid  reverse  trades,  it  is  not  genuine;  it  is  an  unfair  trade  practice. 

(emphasis supplied) 

... 

According  to  SAT,  only  if  there  is  market  impact  on  account  of  sham 

transactions, could there be violation of the PFUTP Regulations. We find it 

extremely difficult to agree with the proposition. (emphasis supplied) 

... 

The  traders  thus  having  engaged  in  a  fraudulent  and  unfair  trade  practice 

while  dealing  in  securities,  are  hence  liable  to  be  proceeded  against  for 

violation of Regulations3(a), 4(1) and 4(2)(a) of PFUTP Regulations. Appeal 

Nos.1969/2011, 3175/2011 and 3180/2011 are hence allowed. The orders of 

the  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal  are  set  aside  and  that  of  the  SEBI  are 

restored 

to 

the 

extent 

indicated 

above. 

 

Per R. Bhanumathi, J (concurring): 

When there were no other transactions in the market affecting the price of the 

underlying shares or F&O Segment and the price in both the segments had 

remained static, then there was no reasonable ground to get apprehensive and 

panic.  Therefore,  squaring  off  the  position  appears  to  adjust  the  financial 

results with a view to avoid the tax incidence through an unfair trade practice 

or for some ulterior purpose. (emphasis supplied) 

... 

An  act  to  fall  within  Regulation  4(2)(a),  it  is  not  necessary  that  the 

transactions entered into by the party was with intention to manipulate the 

market and that the market was in fact manipulated. Market manipulation is 

a deliberate attempt to interfere with the free and fair operation of the market 

and create artificial, false or misleading appearances with respect to the price, 

market, product, security and currency. 

... 

 
Page | - 302 -  

 

 

In  the  quasi-judicial  proceeding  before  SEBI,  the  standard  of  proof  is 

preponderance of probability. (emphasis supplied) 

... 

The market, as already observed, is so widespread that it may not be humanly 

possible for the Board to track the persons who were actually induced to buy 

or sell securities as a result of manipulation and the Board cannot be imposed 

with a burden which is impossible to be discharged. (emphasis supplied) 

... 

Intense supervision might distort the path of securities market development; 

but SEBI cannot be a silent spectator to unfair trade practices/manipulative 

market for some ulterior purpose like tax evasion etc. (emphasis supplied) To 

find  the  right  balance  between  market  forces  and  Regulatory  body's 

intervention, SEBI has to deal sternly with those who indulge in manipulative 

trading  and  deceptive  devices  to  misuse  the  market  and  at  the  same  time 

ensuring the development of the market. 

... 

Before  I  conclude,  it  is  necessary  to  refer  to  the  findings  of  SAT  on  'tax 

planning'.  SAT  held  that  even  assuming  that  non-genuine  synchronized 

trades have been entered into for the purposes of tax planning,  such trade 

could  be  held  objectionable  only  if  they  have  resulted  in  influencing  the 

market in one way or other. For its finding that every person is entitled to 

arrange his affairs as to avoid taxation. SAT relied upon  Viram Investment 

Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. v. SEBI (MANU/SB/0046/2005) decided on 11.02.2005. 

Contention of the respondents is that transactions which have been entered 

into with a view to achieve tax planning are not illegal and respondents placed 

reliance upon Viram Investment Pvt. Ltd. case. The learned counsel for SEBI 

contended that the market cannot be manipulated by fictitious transactions 

either for tax planning or for some ulterior purposes like money laundering 

etc. (emphasis supplied) 

 

 
Page | - 303 -  

 

 

 

No  grounds  have  been  raised  in  the  show  cause  notice  alleging  that  the 

impugned fictitious transactions have been entered into with a view to avoid 

payment of tax and was an act of tax planning. Adjudicating officer also has 

not  gone  into  this  aspect.  Hence,  I  am  not  inclined  to  go  into  this  aspect, 

whether  the  impugned  transactions  were  intended  to  reduce  the  brunt  of 

taxation and an act of tax planning. The correctness of findings of SAT in the 

case of Viram Investment Pvt. Ltd. is left open. (emphasis supplied) 

... 

The  impugned  transactions  are  manipulative/deceptive  device  to  create  a 

desired  loss  and/or  profit.  Such  synchronized  trading  is  violative  of 

transparent norms of  trading in securities. If the findings of SAT are to be 

sustained, it would have serious repercussions undermining the integrity of 

the market and the impugned order of SAT is liable to be set aside. (emphasis 

supplied)” 

The  judgement  of  the  Hon’ble  Supreme  Court  is  noteworthy  for  the  following 

reasons: 

i.  The  issue  of  tax  planning/evasion  arose  only  because  the  transactions 

were defended inter alia on those grounds. It became relevant to do so 

since there was no other logical explanation for the noticees to knowingly 

engage in structured loss making transactions; 

 

ii.  Though the issue of tax planning through non-genuine trades was kept 

open the Court has laid down the principle that for a transaction to be a 

fraudulent and unfair trade practice actual impact on the market is not 

necessary.  A  fraudulent  trade  is  a  fraud,  whether  or  not  a  particular 

identifiable individual or the market is affected in a demonstrable way. 

To that extent the law in India and USA are similar; 

 

iii. 

In respect of tax planning, though the correctness of SAT’s judgment in 

Viram  Investment  Pvt.  Ltd.  was  kept  open,  the  validity  of  underlying 

 
Page | - 304 -  

 

 

transactions through which desired losses are knowingly bought and sold 

stands eroded and in effect Viram Investment Pvt Ltd. (SAT)172 may no 

longer be good law; 

 

iv.  The concurring judgment is clear that SEBI cannot be a silent spectator 

to unfair trade practices/manipulative market for some ulterior purpose 

like tax evasion, etc. This leaves the door open for further developments 

in Indian jurisprudence on the lines of USA SEC where disgorgement was 

successfully  obtained  on  the  basis  of  taxes  avoided  by  a  fraudulent 

scheme. 

 
In  cases  where  a  few  persons  create  a  scheme  for  their  own  benefit  it  may  be 

possible to disgorge benefits linked to unpaid taxes avoided due to such a scheme. 

In  cases  where  a  brokers  run  investment  schemes  primarily  designed  for  tax 

evasion and attract several clients offering their ‘services’ for such purposes, it may 

cast  an  impossible  burden  on  the  enforcement  mechanism  of  the  Board  to 

prosecute each and every investor. In such cases, the joint and several liability may 

be appropriate and the intermediaries may be made liable for the entire scheme 

profits, including those of their clients (based on taxes avoided) and not just their 

own, since such large scale structured transactions cannot be done without their 

active participation.173 

 

7.  FINANCIAL ECONOMICS 

A discussion on advanced mathematical methods is necessary as violations in securities 

markets now involve 100’s or 1000’s of crores. Notably, the magnitude of securities laws 

                                                           
172  Viram  Investment  Pvt.  Ltd.  v  SEBI,  SAT  Appeal  no.  160/2004,  decided  on  11.02.2005,  available  at 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/enforcement/orders/feb-2005/in-the-matter-of-viram-investment-pvt-ltd_11029.html>. 
173 See US v Royer and Anr, 549 F.3d 886 (2d Cir. 2008) (US CA), available at <https://caselaw.findlaw.com/us-2nd-
circuit/1261811.html>: The gains made by the defendant and by the subscribers of his investment website. The Court 
found that the investments scheme was a coordinated effort between the defendant who made the website and the 
subscribers.  

 

 
Page | - 305 -  

 

violations has increased to such a level that they have been found fit to be included under 

the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2018 which must necessarily involve violations of 

at least Rs. 100 crores.  

 

Advanced  mathematical  methods  are  essentially  statistical  methods  that  are  useful  in 

instances  where  large  sums  are  involved  and  simpler  arithmetic  and  rule  of  thumb 

methods  may  have  large divergences  from  the  approximate  values obtainable  through 

statistical methods, which help to isolate the effect of market-related factors and default-

related factors in calculating the disproportionate gains made. 

 

However, statistical methods are not easily employed in low value matters. Experts may 

be needed, as is the practice in USA-SEC, to justify the particular method chosen, since 

within statistical methods there may be divergences based on the methods and the data 

set chosen. This is where SEBI’s role as a regulator regulating a financially and technically 

complex market comes into play. 

 

Statistical  methods  are  used  in  all  fields  and  not  just  the  financial  world,  including 

weather  forecasting,  big  data  analysis,  census  data  analysis  and  formed  an  important 

aspect  of  the  Mandal  Commission’s  classification  which  utilised  extrapolation  of  caste 

census data from 1891 and 1931 censuses.174 Statistical methods are often employed by 

asset management companies, fund managers to forecast returns on investment in order 

to  take  investment  decisions.  Statistical  methods  are  used  for  all  kinds  of  forecasts 

including  investment  returns,  setting  margin  requirements.  Take  for  example  the 

statistical  Black-Scholes  Model175  of  option  pricing  and  pricing  of  employee  stock 

options176 which has also been considered by some to be at the root of the financial crisis 

                                                           
174 See Nandini Sundar, Professor of Sociology at the Delhi School of Economics, ‘Will counting caste help to reduce 
inequality?’ 
<http://censusindia.gov.in/Ad_Campaign/press/Will%20counting%20caste%20help%20to%20reduce%20inequality
.pdf>. 
175 <https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/definition/black-scholes-model> 
176 See Ministry of Corporate Affairs: Ind AS 102 including the principles for valuation of share options to employees 
available at <http://mca.gov.in/Ministry/pdf/Ind_AS102.pdf>. 

 

 
Page | - 306 -  

 

of  2008.177  Though  statistical  methods  seem  complex,  these  methods  are  in  fact 

commonly used in the securities markets by the large number of financial experts and 

economists the world over.178 Several software exist for carrying out such calculations.179 

 

The Board also hires a large number of financial experts (economists, statisticians, MBAs, 

CAs, etc.) like other global regulators and is thus well placed to adopt the best practices 

of global securities regulators. These methods of calculating return are not confined to 

securities regulators but are also used by market making investment decisions based on 

a mathematically anticipated return that the investment may generate.  

 

CHASING  THE  ALPHA  (α)  OR  THE  ABNORMAL  RETURNS  OR  EXCESS  RETURN180  OF 

INSIDERS/FRONT-RUNNERS:  Legal  scholars181  and  other  securities  regulators  have 

supported the use of financial economics in securities litigation, including disgorgement. 

Calculating the excess returns using an event study uses statistics to assess the impact of 

an event on the value of a firm’s stock and the trading done. It enables determination of 

the abnormal returns generated in cases of informational advantage and it is the standard 

methodology used by the USA SEC in insider trading analysis, however it is not required 

in all cases.182 It is ‘abnormal’ because it varies from the normal: ‘expected rate of return’. 

Also 

see, 

NSE-NCFM 

Options 

Trading 

(Advanced)  Module, 

<https://www.motilaloswal.com/article.aspx/1625/What-do-we-mean-by-Alpha-from-a-fund-managers-

                                                           
177 See Ian Stewart, Emeritus professor of Mathematics at the University of Warwick, ‘The mathematical equation 
that  caused  the  banks  to  crash’,  available  at  <https://www.theguardian.com/science/2012/feb/12/black-scholes-
equation-credit-crunch>; 
at 
<https://www.nseindia.com/learn/self-study-ncfm-modules-advanced-modules> (explaining  the  various methods  adopted  for 
valuation of exchange-traded options in securities). 
178 
perspective> 
179 
See 
<https://www.sas.com/en_in/home.html>; <https://www.stata.com/> and <https://www.eventstudytools.com/>. 
180  See  <https://www.investopedia.com/terms/a/abnormalreturn.asp>;  <https://investinganswers.com/financial-
dictionary/stock-valuation/abnormal-rate-return-3105>. 
181 Janet c  Alexander,  The Value of Bad  News in Securities Class Actions,  41 UCLA  L. Rev. 1421, 1433  (1994); 
Macey, Miller, Mitchell, Mitchell & Netter, Lessons from Financial Economics: Materiality, Reliance, and Extending 
the  Reach 
at 
<https://www.jstor.org/stable/1073445>; Fischel, Use of Modern Finance Theory in Securities fraud Cases Involving 
Actively Traded Securities, 38 Bus. Law, 1, 1-20 (1982), available at <https://www.jstor.org/stable/40686405>. 

<https://wrds-www.wharton.upenn.edu/pages/analytics/>; 

<https://www.r-project.org/>; 

77  Va.  L.  Rev, 

1017, 

of  Basic 

v  Levinson, 

1021-28 

(1991), 

available 

available 

182 SEC v Wyly, 71 F. Supp. 3d 399 (S.D.N.Y. 2014), available at <https://casetext.com/case/sec-amp-exch-commn-
v-wyly#N197547>: 

“Moreover, I do not agree that the SEC should have employed the standard method used for measuring the 
ill-gotten gains in insider trading cases, i.e., performing an event study for each trade. (emphasis supplied) 
First, this is not an insider trading case. Though the SEC alleges that the Wylys used an informational advantage 
 
Page | - 307 -  

 

 

It can be positive or negative. (‘Ideally’ a fund manager who can generate a positive alpha 

or positive abnormal returns beats the market and is highly sought after). 

 

Statistical methods are usually employed in cases where the defaulter does not close his 

position and determination of  profit is difficult or the illegal  profit is mixed with legal 

gains. Event studies (econometric methodology) in conjunction with the abnormal rate of 

returns  methods  are  useful  to  assess  the  returns  of  defaulters  in  comparison  with  the 

normal returns of market to assess the amount of profit to be disgorged. The Committee 

notes that existing methods adopted relating to profit calculation indicate an attempt to 

develop a simpler methodology vis-a-vis statistical methods. However in doing so there 

are several trade-offs which limit the application and reliability of current methods; the 

Committee notes that those methods are not in public domain and nor are they designed 

specifically  for  illiquid  securities  nor  are  they  designed  for  eventualities  where  the 

defaulter has an open position at the end of the fraud or in line with the approach adopted 

by various Court nor do they help differentiate the legitimate gains from disproportionate 

gains  as  is  the  requirement  under  the  securities  laws.  As  such  they  are  not  really  an 

alternative  to  statistical  methods  adopted  by  various  securities  regulators,  courts  and 

tribunals  globally.  Invariably,  the  Committee  notes  that  the  Board  is  a  specialist 

organisation regulating a very complex financial market and its technical edge needs to 

                                                           

to trade opportunistically, they did this in the context of the offshore system where the Wylys could choose 
between securities from four different Issuers where they had an informational advantage. In this context, the 
Wylys could have information that while one Issuer stock was poised to rise moderately, another Issuer stock 
would rise more during the same period.  
 
In this case, using an event study would not detect any use of informational advantage in a sale of the first 
stock, even though the decision to sell was motivated by an informational advantage.  
 
Second, this approach is simply not feasible given the length of the fraud period here—thirteen years—and the 
hundreds of trades at issue. Because of the unique facts of this case, I credit Dr. Becker's testimony that the 
established  methodologies  for  measuring  the  value  of  secrecy  and  informational  advantage  would  not 
reasonably  approximate  the  Wylys'  ill-gotten  gains.  Moreover,  given  the  absence  of  an  established 
methodology, I agree that Dr. Becker's method, that of comparing the Wylys' profits to those of a buy-and-hold 
investor could reasonably approximate the profits causally connected to the Wylys' violations.  
 
Based on the unique facts here and the testimony of the experts, I conclude that Dr. Becker's choice of method 
was reasonable.” 

 

 
Page | - 308 -  

 

be  sharpened  if  the  Board  is  to  make  a  determined  effort  to  maintain  a  cutting  edge 

enforcement arm. 

 

 

‘α’  AS  AN  IMPORTANT  RED  FLAG:  Since  it  is  difficult  for  any  person  to 

actually get a substantial ‘α’ without appropriate justification, calculating 

‘α’  of  trades  by  insiders  and  connected  persons  may  be  a  very  good 

indication  of  insider  trading  or  front-running  having  taken  place.  The 

failure to substantiate the trade on the basis of actual access to reliable data 

(other  than  unpublished  price  sensitive  information)  which  led  to  the 

investment  decision,  in  comparison  to  the  general  market  or  even 

professional fund managers, is useful indicator of fraud especially if such 

persons  were  in  a  position  to  access  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information. Statistics enables such analysis of fraudulent trades.  

The exact formulae and methods are not discussed in this report as these methods are 

well  understood  in  the  financial  world  and  are  adopted  and  developed  by  different 

securities regulators globally183 as well as by market participants in making investment 

decisions. However, the Committee will briefly discuss the concepts underlying the Event 

Study methodology which is the most basic method used by securities regulators globally 

for cases relating to information advantage. 

 

EVENT  STUDY  MECHANISM184:  An  event  study  is  a  statistical  technique  developed  by 

economists that estimates the stock price impact of occurrences such as mergers, earning 

of 

Issue 

1, 

59-86, 

Banking 

                                                           
183 For a detailed study of SEC methodology and how it may be adopted in the context of other markets see the 
study in respect of the Italian market by the Italian Companies and Exchange Commission using the event study 
analysis  method  and  the  probabilistic  method  used  as  an  alternative  method:  Marcello  Minenna,  ‘Insider 
Trading,  Abnormal  Return  and  Preferential  Information:  Supervising  through  a  Probabilistic  Model’,  27  (2003) 
Journal 
at 
<https://nscpolteksby.ac.id/ebook/files/Ebook/Journal/2015/Banking%20and%20Finance/Vol.%2027/Volume%202
7%20Issue%201/Page%2059-86/Insider%20trading-abnormal%20return%20and.pdf>, 
<https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0378426601002096>. 
<http://marcello.minenna.it/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/riskeu2003.pdf>. 
184 For details see Mark L. Mitchell and Jeffry M. Netter, 'The Role of Financial Economics in Securities Fraud Cases: 
Applications at the Securities and Exchange Commission', The Business Lawyer, Vol. 49, No. 2 (February 1994), pp. 
545-590,  available  at  <  https://www.jstor.org/stable/40687469?seq=1#metadata_info_tab_contents>.;  A.  Craig 
 
Page | - 309 -  

available 

& 

Finance, 

Also 

see 

 

 

announcements, and so forth. The basic notion is to disentangle the effects of two types 

of information on stock prices- information that is specific to the firm under examination 

(e.g. dividend announcement) and information that is likely to affect stock prices market 

wide. 

 

In  securities  investigation,  the  execution  of  an  event  study  by  an  economist  is  quite 

simple.  It  involves  the  identification  of  an  event  that  causes  investors  to  change  their 

expectations about the value of a firm. The Investigator compares a stock price movement 

contemporaneous with the event to the expected stock price if the event study had not 

taken place. There are three basic steps in conducting an event study: (i) define the event 

window; (ii) calculate the abnormal stock price performance around the event and (iii) 

test for statistical significance of the abnormal stock price performance. 

 

(i) THE EVENT WINDOW: The first step in the event study is selecting an event window. 

The event window is the period when information about the event becomes available 

to the stock market and thus may affect the relevant company’s stock price. For most 

publicly-traded  corporations,  the  event  is  disseminated  publicly  by  newswire 

sources or the stock exchange. Because the efficient markets hypothesis, supported 

by considerable empirical evidence, suggests that stock prices react quickly to the 

release of new information, in many cases the event window will be relatively short, 

sometimes  as  short  as  one  trading  day.  In  determining  the  length  of  an  event 

window, an important trade off exists. The longer the event window, the more likely 

the window includes the period during which all new information about the event is 

released. The trade-off, however, is that long event windows may include noise and 

information  from  other  events,  making  it  difficult  to  isolate  the  impact  of  the 

relevant event. The extent of difficulty in defining the event window length varies 

across events. In those instances, where the release of new information is a complete 

surprise to the market, it is relatively easy to establish the beginning of the event 

period.  Consider  an  airline  crash,  for  example.  Because  airline  crashes  are 

                                                           
Mackinlay, ‘Event Studies in Economics and Finance’, (1997) 35 Journal of Economic Literature, 13-39, available at 
<https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/aac6/83a678a12a3dcd73389aac7289868847ea73.pdf>. 

 

 
Page | - 310 -  

 

 

unanticipated, the first day of the event period is either the day of the crash or the 

subsequent trading day if the crash occurred after the market close. Even when it is 

easy to identify the beginning of an event window, it can be difficult to establish an 

end of the event window. In the airline example, the end of the period would depend 

on when all of the relevant information regarding the crash was made available to 

market  participants.  For  some  crashes,  it  may  take  several  days  or  perhaps  even 

weeks before the market receives all the relevant information; in these cases, a longer 

event  window  is  more  necessary  than  for  a  crash  in  which  all  the  information  is 

available within a few hours following the crash. In most cases, however, the bulk of 

the information is released at the announcement of the event. Because the market 

processes information rapidly, it is conventional to expand the window for a short 

period after the announcement. It is standard to extend the event period to close of 

the trading on the day after the release of the pertinent information. 

 

For  those  events  that  are  subject  to  leakage,  defining  the  beginning  of  the  event 

window  can  be  problematic.  Consider  the  case  of  a  merger  in  which  the  target 

company is rumoured to be “in play” prior to the announcement. For such a case, 

the event window should begin prior to the actual merger announcement, perhaps 

as long as a week or two. Ideally, the first day of the event window corresponding to 

a  merger  would  be  the  date  on  which  investors began  trading  on  news  about  the 

upcoming  merger,  regardless  of  whether  the  news  was  based  on  rumours,  inside 

information, regulatory filing, or a public announcement that merger talks were in 

process. In practice, this date is difficult to define and some degree of judgment is 

required  generally  based  on  price  and  volume  movements  prior  to  the  merger 

announcement. With respect to securities fraud cases, there is substantial variation 

in the complexity of determining the length of an event window. In some fraud cases, 

choosing the appropriate event window is straightforward. An example is an insider 

trading case where the information used by the investor is revealed subsequently in 

a single public announcement. On the other hand, in many securities fraud cases the 

relevant  information  is  revealed  slowly  over  time,  while  during  the  same  period 

investors  receive  other,  sometimes  unrelated,  information  about  the  firm(s)  in 

 
Page | - 311 -  

 

 

question. In the latter case, it is relatively difficult to choose an appropriate window. 

The main advice is to carefully identify the exact dates during which the information 

in question reached the market, and then restrict the window to a short period if 

possible, generally two or three days around each release of new information. 

 

(ii) CALCULATING ABNORMAL STOCK PRICE PERFORMANCE: The question is whether the 

absolute value of the return is large enough so that the investigator can indicate with 

confidence that the return made by the defaulter is relatively unusual. The goal is to 

isolate the effect of the event on the contemporaneous stock price movement. Stated 

differently, the investigator attempts to determine whether the stock price behaviour 

around the event is abnormal. A large abnormal price movement occurring at the 

same time the market receives news about an event suggests that the event caused 

the  abnormal  price  movement.  Furthermore,  the  link  between  the  event  and  the 

price movement is even stronger if there is no other new information reaching the 

market at the same time that could affect the stock price. The degree to which the 

stock price movement is small or big depends not only on the absolute value of the 

movement  but  also  on  the  movement  relative  to  the  historical  patterns  and  to 

contemporaneous overall market movements.  

 

It  is  important  to  account  for  market-wide  movement  in  stock,  especially  during 

periods when the market is volatile. The basic method for accounting for market-

wide  factors  subtracts  the  market-wide  return  from  the  individual  stock's  return. 

This estimate is called the net-of-market return. Several choices of market indices 

are available as proxies for a market wide return- wider the market index the better 

it is considered as representative of the market. There are several statistical models 

depending on stock behaviour that can be used to determine returns, such as (a) the 

Constant  Mean  Return  Model  which  assumes  that  the  mean  return  of  a  given 

security is constant through time and is perhaps the simplest model, (b) the Market 

Model which  assumes a stable linear relation between the market return and the 

security  return  (c)  restricted  approaches  in  special  cases  such  as  the  Market–

Adjusted Abnormal  Return which  is a constrained model used  in  cases of  under-

 
Page | - 312 -  

 

 

pricing of initial public offerings. There are also Economic Models which can be cast 

as restrictions on the statistical models to provide even more constrained models. 

The  use  of  other  models  is  dictated  by  data  availability.  An  example  of  a  normal 

performance  return  model  implemented  in  situations  with  limited  data  is  the 

market-adjusted  return  model.  A  general  recommendation  is  to  only  use  such 

restricted  models  if  necessary,  and  if  necessary,  consider  the  possibility  of  biases 

arising from the imposition of the restrictions. The main potential gain from using a 

model based on the arbitrage pricing theory is to eliminate the biases introduced by 

using the CAPM. However, because the statistically motivated models also eliminate 

these biases, for event studies such models dominate. 

 

Further,  although  net-of-market  returns,  in  many  cases,  provide  an  appropriate 

estimate  of  stock  price  effects  of  new  information,  there  are  instances  where 

computation of market adjusted returns requires a more refined analysis to account 

for the fact that not all stocks are affected identically by economy-wide factors. This 

requires the  investigator  to  use  beta  (β)-adjusted  stock  market  performance.  The 

difference between the predicted return and the actual return on a given date during 

the event window is known as ‘abnormal return’. Why abnormal? It is assumed that 

the unexplained part is due to some “abnormal” event that is not captured by the 

model.  Event  windows  can  extend  beyond  one  trading  day.  For  these  cases,  the 

abnormal  returns  are  cumulated  to  create 

‘cumulative  abnormal  returns’. 

Cumulative  abnormal  returns  only  measure  the  impact  of  company  specific 

information.  In  a  real  sense,  the  value  of  the  information  to  the  trader  is  best 

represented  by  how  the  information  would  have  affected  the  stock  price  in  the 

absence of any other factors – the cumulative abnormal return. 

  

(iii)  TESTING  FOR  STATISTICAL  SIGNIFICANCE:  The  question  is  whether  the  absolute 

value  of  the  return  is  large  enough  so  that  the  investigator  can  indicate  with 

confidence  that  the  return  made  by  the  defaulter  is  relatively  unusual.  The 

importance  of  historical  average  and  standard  deviation  of  the  daily  returns  is 

highlighted in making the assertion that a given daily return is different from the 

 
Page | - 313 -  

 

 

typical  daily  return  given  the  context  of  a  normal-bell  shaped-  distribution. 

Statistical  tests  of  significance  are  useful  both  in  establishing  materiality  and  in 

calculating disgorgement. A finding that a stock return associated with the release of 

information is large enough that it is unlikely that the return occurred by chance is 

strong evidence that the information was important. Therefore, if that information 

was used allegedly in securities fraud, the finding that the associated stock return is 

large enough to be statistically important implies that the information is material. 

Furthermore,  a  finding  of  statistical  significance  for  stock  returns  data  used  in 

calculations of disgorgement is an indication that the estimates are accurate.  

 

E.g.  suppose  a company’s  stock  price increases 7  %  on  the  day  that  management 

releases a favourable earnings announcement. Suppose, also, that the prior day a 

company  insider  purchased  stock  based  on  his  knowledge  of  the  forthcoming 

announcement. The insider is subsequently charged with insider trading. A finding 

that the 7% return on the earnings announcement day is statistically significant is 

strong  empirical  evidence  that  the  news  was  important.  Stated  differently,  it  is 

unlikely  that  the  7%  increase  in  stock  price  occurred  by  chance.  Furthermore,  in 

calculating  the  profits  for  disgorgement  based  on  stock  price  increase  on  the 

announcement  day,  if  the  return  is  statistically  significant,  then  a  more  credible 

argument  can  be  made  that  the  7%  return  represents  the  value  of  the  insider’s 

information. (This example does not imply that only positive increases in stock price 

are statistically significant, the historical and other contemporaneous factors need 

to  be  taken  into  account  to  determine  what  change  in  price  is  statistically 

significant.) 

Thus, statistical methods not only enable the quantification of profits but also enable the 

adoption of a statistical method to test the materiality of any information. 

 

The Board needs to develop new legal theories and adopt these statistical methods if the 

Board needs to maintain a cutting edge enforcement mechanism. Wherever difficulty is 

 

 
Page | - 314 -  

 

faced by the Board in using these methods the assistance of experts like fund managers, 

auditors, lawyers, mathematicians, economists can be taken.  

 

Though there are several shortcomings in using each and every kind of statistical methods 

in  all  circumstances,185  new  methods186  get  developed  over  time,  like  other  securities 

regulators, to enable a best judgment assessment, which is better than no assessment at 

all. These methods need to be assessed in detail, adopted and developed by the Board, 

since  different  methods  can  be  used  depending  on  the  facts  of  each  case  and  the 

shortcoming of each method, such as liquidity of stock, recently quoted stock, etc. 

 

 

 

 

 

8.  GENERAL GUIDELINES 

In view of the above, the Committee is of the view that non-mandatory public guidelines 

(based on globally acknowledged methods of quantification, accounting standards  and 

principles applied by judicial bodies, etc.) applicable for all new cases for quantification 

of profit made and loss caused as a result of violation of securities laws may be issued for 

the technical authorities that undertake investigation, inspection or audit under securities 

laws. These authorities may quantify the approximate profit made or loss caused based 

on  the  aforesaid  in  their  Reports  which  shall  be  relevant  for  the  Board  for  initiating 

appropriate enforcement action as well as serve as a guide for the quasi-judicial authority 

while considering the appropriate penalty to be levied or the amount to be disgorged. In 

general, before doing a full calculation, a back of the envelope/rough estimation can be 

made by the investigation authorities to determine which mode is to be adopted. If the 

earlier methods are more appropriate to a particular matter, the same can  be adopted 

<https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/mf/analysis/how-to-calculate-risk-adjusted-returns-on-

                                                           
185 
funds/articleshow/12208746.cms> 
186  See  Jeng,  Metrick  and  Zeckhauser,  ‘Estimating  the  Returns  to  Insider  Trading:  A  Performance-Evaluation 
Perspective’, Harvard University and MIT Press: The Review of Economics and Statistics, May 2003, 85(2): 453-
471, available at <https://sites.hks.harvard.edu/fs/rzeckhau/InsiderTrading.pdf>. 

 

 
Page | - 315 -  

 

after recording reasons. The selection of the final profit/loss amount is left to the exercise 

of judicial discretion of the quasi-judicial authority. The Board can seek information from 

any person, including the defaulter. If after reasonable time, the noticee does not provide 

the relevant information, the calculation made by SEBI at the highest value will be final. 

(See  the  principle  established  in  Armory  v  Delamirie187).  The  guidelines  have  been 

framed after taking into account any foreseeable needs in the near future that the Board 

may have. 

 

On comparison with global regulators, it becomes clear that the enforcement processes of 

the Board  needs  a major  overhaul.  The  Committee takes  notice of  the practices  of  the 

Japanese Regulator188 - the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission (SESC) - 

which  issues  a  Recommendation  for  Administrative  Monetary  Penalty  to  the  Prime 

Minister of Japan and the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency (FSA), which 

is confirmed by the FSA. The Recommendations189 made by the Securities and Exchange 

Surveillance  Commission  and  the  Orders190  issued  by  the  Financial  Services  Agency 

(which is part of  the Prime Minister’s Office) contain detailed calculations on how the 

penalty was levied, taking into account every transaction and ¥ as far as possible. This 

practice needs to be adopted by the Board in its investigation/inspection/audit reports to 

further transparency and clarify the basis of its penalty, disgorgement and refund orders.  

664 

(KB), 

available 

at 

(1722) 

1  Strange 

5O5, 

93  ER 

[1722]  EWHC  KB 

                                                           
187 
J94, 
<https://www.bailii.org/ew/cases/EWHC/1722/J94.htm> 
188 See <https://www.fsa.go.jp/sesc/english/aboutsesc/all.pdf>. 
189 See, Recommendation dated 02.02.2016 for administrative penalty for market manipulation by Evo Investment 
Advisors,  available  at  <https://www.fsa.go.jp/sesc/english/news/reco/20160202-1.htm>;  Recommendation  dated 
04.03.2016 for administrative penalty for market manipulation by Blue Sky Capital Management Pty Ltd, available at 
<https://www.fsa.go.jp/sesc/english/news/reco/20160304-1.htm>;  Recommendation 
for 
administrative  penalty  for  market  manipulation  by  Morgan  Stanley  MUFG  Securities  Co.  Ltd.,  available  at 
<https://www.fsa.go.jp/sesc/english/news/reco/20161206-1.htm>;  Recommendation 
for 
at  < 
administrative 
https://www.fsa.go.jp/sesc/english/news/reco/20170317-1.htm>; 
for 
administrative  penalty 
Inc.,  available  at 
<https://www.fsa.go.jp/sesc/english/news/reco/20180626.htm>. 
190 See, Order dated 24.04.2018 imposing Penalty Surcharge for market manipulation of stocks of Yurtec Co. Ltd and 
Maeda Road Construction Co. Ltd., available at <https://www.fsa.go.jp/news/30/shouken/20180424-8.html>; Order 
dated 24.04.2018 imposing penalty surcharge in case of insider trading relating to Misawa Home stock by officers of 
its  subsidiary,  available  at  <https://www.fsa.go.jp/news/30/shouken/20180424-7.html>;  Order  dated  24.04.2018 
imposing  penalty  surcharge 
trading  by  officer  of  Escrow  Agent  Japan  Ltd,  available  at 
<https://www.fsa.go.jp/news/30/shouken/20180424-6.html>. (Translated from Japanese using Google Translate). 

dated 
by  Caspian  Trading  Ltd., 
dated 

17.03.2017 
available 
26.06.2018 

shares  of  Cocokara  Fine 

for  market  manipulation 

in 

for  market  manipulation 

Recommendation 

for 

insider 

penalty 

dated 

06.12.2016 

 

 
Page | - 316 -  

 

 

RECOMMENDATION:  

i.  The  Board  may  consider  issuing  the  following  public  Guidelines  at  the  earliest 

(w.e.f. Oct 01, 2021) to enable advance notice to market participants, including the 

members of the bar and Bench: 

 

 

GUIDELINES FOR QUANTIFICATION OF THE AMOUNT OF DISPROPORTIONATE GAIN 

INCLUDING UNFAIR ADVANTAGE 

& 

AMOUNT OF LOSS CAUSED TO AN INVESTOR OR GROUP OF INVESTORS 

  

 

 QUANTIFICATION OF AMOUNT OF DISPROPORTIONATE GAIN MADE AND LOSS CAUSED 

AS A RESULT OF THE VIOLATION OF SECURITIES LAWS 

 

CHAPTER I 

 

INTRODUCTION 

 

The securities laws provide guidance to the adjudicating officer and the Board for the 

purpose of arriving at an appropriate penalty to be levied and enable the consideration 

of relevant factors, including the following factors, -  

(i) 

the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage,  wherever 

quantifiable, as a result of the default;  

(ii) 

the amount of loss caused to an investor or group of investors as a result of 

the default; and 

(iii) 

the repetitive nature of default. 

 

 

 
Page | - 317 -  

 

 

Quantification of disproportionate gain is also relevant for the purpose of disgorgement 

from defaulters.  

 

Whereas, Chapter VII of the Second Schedule to the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India  (Settlement  Proceedings)  Regulations,  2018  read  with  Regulation  32  of  those 

Regulations,  provides  guidance  for  consideration  of  the  ‘repetitive  nature  of  the 

default’. 

 

 

Whereas,  the  Board  considers  it  necessary  to  provide  the  following  guidance  for 

quantification  of  the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage  and  the 

amount of loss caused to an investor or group of investors as a result of the default,- 

 

CHAPTER II 

 

GLOSSARY OF IMPORTANT TERMS 

SR. 
NO.  

TERM/ 

ABBREVIATION  

1.    Accounting for 
profits method 

2.    Arbitrage 

3.    Asset-based 

approach 

4.    Average loss to 

the victims method 

5.    Before-and-after 

method 

 

EXPLANATION  

Based on incremental sales or profits achieved 
by  the  defaulter  as  the  result  of  the  harmful 
event.  
The act of simultaneous buying and selling of 
securities,  currency,  or  commodities 
in 
different  markets  or  in  derivative  forms  in 
order to take advantage of differing prices for 
the same asset. 
Involves analyzing the plaintiff’s tangible and 
intangible assets net of liabilities.  
The number of shares held by holders who are 
aggrieved multiplied by the average loss [based 
on  the  difference  between  the  average  price 
during the fraud (or relevant period selected) 
and average price during the averaging period 
selected after the fraud] 
Compares  profits  before  the  default  event  to 
profits made after the default event. 

 
Page | - 318 -  

 

 

6.    Beta (β) 

7.    Board 

8.    Bucketing 

9.    Capping and 

Pegging 

10.   Churning and 

Burning 

11.   Correlation 

12.   CTT (Commodity 
Transaction Tax) 

13.   Delta (Δ) 

Describes  the  movement  in  a  stock's  or  a 
portfolio's  returns  in  relation  to  that  of  the 
market returns. For all practical purposes, the 
market returns are measured by the returns on 
the indices, since an index is a good reflector of 
the market. 
Securities and Exchange Board of India 

Promising a certain price in respect of buying 
or selling of a security to a client and waiting 
till  a  discrepancy  arises  in  the  price  of  such 
security 
Capping is the practice of selling large amounts 
of  a  commodity  or  security  close  to  the 
expiration  date  of  its  options  in  order  to 
prevent  a  rise  in  the  underlying's  price.  The 
writer  or  seller  of  an  options  contract  has  an 
interest in keeping the price of the underlying 
below the strike price in order for the options 
to expire worthless.  
 
Pegging is the opposite practice of buying large 
amounts  of  a  commodity  or  security  close  to 
the  expiration  date  of  its  options  in  order  to 
prevent a decline in its price 
Practice  of  an 
intermediary  conducting 
excessive trading in a client's account mainly to 
generate commissions. 
Is a statistic that measures the degree to which 
two  securities  (or  stock  exchange  indices) 
move in relation to each other. Correlations are 
used  in  advanced  portfolio  management  and 
calculated  by  various  stock  exchanges  and 
intermediaries,  computed  as  the  correlation 
coefficient,  which  has  a  value  that  must  fall 
between -1.0 and +1.0. 
Commodities  transaction  tax  (CTT)  is  a  tax 
similar  to  Securities  Transaction  Tax  (STT), 
levied  in  India,  on  transactions  done  on  the 
domestic commodity derivatives exchanges. 
A ratio comparing the change in the price of an 
asset,  usually  a  marketable  security,  to  the 
corresponding  change  in  the  price  of  its 
derivative.  Delta  values  can  be  positive  or 
negative depending on the type of option. 

 
Page | - 319 -  

14.   ESOPS (Employee 

Stock Ownership 
Plan) 

15.   IEPF (Investor 
Education and 
Protection Fund) 
  Income approach 

16.   Inter-positioning 

17.   IPEF (Investor 
Protection and 
Education Fund) 

18.   IPR (Intellectual 
Property Rights) 

19.   Market Approach 

 

 

An  employee-owner  program  that  provides  a 
company's  workforce  with  an  ownership 
interest in the company. 
A fund formed under the Companies Act, 2013 
for  promotion  of  investors’  awareness  and 
protection of the interests of investors.  
Involves  calculation  of  a  business’s  value  by 
applying a discount or capitalization rate to a 
measure  of  its  expected  future  earnings  to 
arrive at a present value of the future benefit 
streams.  
Illegal  practice  of  employing  a  second 
intermediary in order to generate an additional 
commission and can take various forms. In one 
form,  the  broker  purchases  stock  for  the 
brokerage firm's proprietary account from the 
customer sell order; and then fills the customer 
buy order by selling from the brokerage firm's 
proprietary  account  at  a  higher  price  —  thus 
locking  in  a  riskless  profit  for  the  brokerage 
firm's proprietary account.  
 
A second form of inter-positioning involves the 
broker  selling  stock  into  the  customer  buy 
order, and then filling the customer sell order 
by buying for the brokerage firm's proprietary 
account at a lower price — again, locking in a 
riskless  profit 
firm's 
proprietary  account.  In  both  forms  of  inter-
positioning,  the  broker  participates  on  both 
sides of the trade, thereby capturing the spread 
between 
the  purchase  and  sale  prices, 
disadvantaging at least one of the parties to the 
transaction. 
A 
(Investor 
Protection and Education Fund) Regulations, 
2009 
 
Legal  rights  that  protect  creations  and/or 
inventions  resulting  from  intellectual  activity 
in the industrial, scientific, literary or artistic 
fields.  
Uses  pricing  multiples  taken  from  guideline 
companies  or  transactions  and  applies  these 
multiples  to  the  appropriate  performance 
measure of the company being valued 

fund  constituted  by  SEBI 

for 

the  brokerage 

 
Page | - 320 -  

20.   Market 

Capitalization 

21.   Market 

Capitalization 
Method 

 

 

prior 

to 

day 

before 

price 

the 

period 

The  total  market  value  of  a  company's 
outstanding shares. 
The  actual  loss  attributable  to  the  change  in 
value of the security is the amount determined 
by—  
(I)  calculating  the  difference  between  the 
immediate  price  of  the  security  during  a 
suitable 
the 
disclosure/stoppage  of  the  fraud  (usually  the 
closing 
the 
disclosure/stoppage) and the immediate price 
of the security after the fraud was disclosed to 
the market/stopped (usually the closing price 
after  the  disclosure/stoppage)  (or  next  day 
price), and  
(II) multiplying the difference by the number 
of  shares  out-standing  after  excluding  those 
held  by  the  defaulters  themselves  (if  they 
amount  to  substantial  holdings)  throughout 
the period of the default, if available. 
 
In  determining  whether  the  amount  so 
determined  is  a  reasonable  estimate  of  the 
actual loss attributable to the change in value 
of the security, the Board may consider, among 
other  factors,  viz.-  the  extent  to  which  the 
amount  so  determined  includes  ‘significant 
changes’ in value not resulting from the default 
(e.g.,  changes  caused  by  external  market 
forces, 
economic 
circumstances, changed investor expectations, 
and  new  industry-specific  or  firm-specific 
facts,  conditions,  or  events  that  appear  to 
impact the price movement by more than 20%) 
by fixing if possible, a suitable percentage on 
the amount determined above: 
Provided  that  in  case  of  companies  which 
become entirely worthless after the default, i.e. 
If the company whose securities is sold has no 
activities, assets, facilities, or any other source 
of  value,  so  that  the  "company"  has  no 
underlying  equity;  in  such  cases  instead  of 
taking  the  difference  take  the  entire  value  of 
stock prior to the fraud coming to light. 
Explanation. – The fact that the stock cannot 
be  traded  at  all  after  the  fraudulent  scheme 

changed 

such 

as 

 
Page | - 321 -  

22.   Market Share 

Method 

23.   Marking the Close 

24.   Modified Market 

Capitalization 
Method 

25.   Modified 

Recessionary 
Method 

 

 

irregularities 

in 

came to light or the stock has been traded only 
by “insiders” in the fraudulent scheme shall be 
relevant to decide if the stock was worthless. 
The method is based on the market share the 
person  would  have  attained,  “but  for”  the 
default event.  
Involves  deliberately  buying  or 
selling 
securities or derivatives contracts at the close 
of  the market in  an  effort to alter the closing 
price of the security or derivatives contract 
Comparing the change in stock value of other, 
stock  of  similarly  placed  but  unaffiliated 
companies  after 
those 
companies were disclosed to the market. The 
average  depreciation may  be  taken  as  loss 
caused. 
The  actual  loss  attributable  to  the  change  in 
value of the security is the amount determined 
by—  
(I)  calculating  the  difference  between  the 
average price of the security during the period 
that the fraud occurred and the average price 
of  the  security  during  the  relevant  period 
(choice  of  appropriate  time  period  may  be 
made to inter alia consider the time when the 
market  could  be  said  to  have  absorbed  the 
information and reflect the same in the price 
of the security. There may be delay with which 
the  market  may  start  correcting  itself  or 
extended  periods  for  the  market  to  correct 
itself.  This  depends  on  individual  stock  and 
market  conditions)  after  the 
fraud  was 
disclosed to the market or after the misconduct 
ended, as may be applicable, and  
(II) multiplying the difference in average price 
by the number of securities out-standing after 
excluding 
the  defaulters 
themselves  (if  they  amount  to  substantial 
holdings) throughout the period of the default, 
if available. 
 
Explanation  1.  –  Average  price  may  be 
calculated  by  using  the  closing  price  of  each 
trading  day  of  the  time  period  selected  or  by 
using  any  other  relevant  price,  including 
weighted average price or other method. It is 

those  held  by 

 
Page | - 322 -  

 

 

not  necessary  that  the  relevant  period  may 
refer  to  the  entire  period  from  which  the 
default occurred and the fraud came to a stop, 
the ‘relevant’ period may refer to a sub-period 
during which substantial trades took place or 
which was immediately connected to the fraud. 

 
‘relevant’  period  for 
Explanation  2.  – 
averaging:  In  case  of  illiquid  securities 
[including related exchange traded derivatives 
and debt instruments]: the price on the day (or 
the next trading day, whichever is appropriate) 
the  true  and  fair  information/fraud  has  been 
become publicly disseminated/stopped may be 
selected or the  average price for a period not 
exceeding  seven  trading  days,  to  the  extent 
possible, 
fair 
information/fraud  has  been  become  publicly 
disseminated/stopped may be selected, as may 
be deemed fit.  

after 

true 

and 

the 

 
Explanation  3.  – 
‘relevant’  period  for 
averaging:  In  case  of  liquid  securities 
[including related exchange traded derivatives 
and  debt  instruments]:  the  period  may  be  a 
multiple of fifteen trading days to be selected 
after  the  true  and  fair  information/fraud  has 
been  become  publicly  disseminated/stopped 
provided that it shall not exceed ninety days, to 
the  extent  possible,  especially  in  relation  to 
securities  which  are  part  of  any 
index 
[including related exchange traded derivatives 
and debt instruments]. Shorter periods may be 
selected 
factors 
demonstrably affect the price. 

extraneous 

case 

in 

 

In  determining  whether  the  amount  so 
determined  is  a  reasonable  estimate  of  the 
actual loss attributable to the change in value 
of the security, the Board may consider, among 
other factors, the extent to which the amount 
so determined includes ‘significant changes’ in 
value  not  resulting  from  the  default  (e.g., 
changes caused by external market forces, such 
as changed economic circumstances, changed 
industry- 
investor  expectations,  and  new 

 
Page | - 323 -  

 

 

specific  or  firm-specific  facts,  conditions,  or 
events  that  appear  to 
impact  the  price 
movement  by  more  than  20%)  by  fixing  if 
possible, a suitable percentage of the amount 
determined above. 
 

30.   Sales Projection 

Method  

31.   Scalping 

33.   Simple 

28.   Quasi-judicial 

Authority 

29.   Relevant Authority 

27.   Portfolio-pumping 

26.   Net Profit Approach  The  approach  considers  the  total  increase  in 
value  realized  through  trading  in  securities. 
Gain  is  the  total  profit  actually  made  from  a 
defendant’s illegal securities transactions.  
Bidding up the value of a fund's holdings right 
before the end of the period, when the fund's 
performance  is  measured.  This  is  done  by 
placing  a  large  number  of  orders  on  existing 
holdings,  which  drives  up  the  value  of  the 
securities within the fund portfolio. 
A  Member  of  the  Board  or  an  Adjudicating 
Officer exercising quasi-judicial functions. 
Includes  an  investigating  officer,  designated 
authority,  inspecting  authority  and  a  quasi-
judicial authority.  
The  method  compares 
forecasted  profits 
before the harmful event to actual profits after 
the harmful event 
Recommending a security for investment and 
selling 
it  at  a  profit  while  making  the 
recommendation 
Includes  all  laws  pertaining  to  securities 
market which are administered by the Board 
the  actual  loss  attributable  to  the  change  in 
value of the security is the amount determined 
by calculating the difference between the price 
paid  by  the  affected  set  of  investors  and  the 
price existing after the fraud was disclosed to 
the market/stopped 
The defaulter’s behaviour has to be compared 
vis-à-vis  the  behaviour  of  a  person  who 
complies  with  securities  laws.  The  monetary 
and  non-monetary  benefits  received  by  a 
defaulter  has  to  be  compared  with  the  costs 
incurred  and  benefits 
the 
compliant person to determine the illegal gain. 
In order to determine loss caused to investors 
or  to  determine  the  obligation  of  defaulters 
which is dependent on the prior exercise of any 
right  associated  with  securities,  etc.,  the 

the Reasonable 
Investor 

Recessionary 
Method 

34.   Standard of the 

Compliant Person 

32.   Securities Laws 

35.   Standard of 

received  by 

 
Page | - 324 -  

 

 

 

36.   Tailgating  

37.   Touting  

38.   Uttering of 
Securities 

39.   Yardstick Method 

40.   Zero-Sum Game 

to 

investors  are  presumed  to  have  behaved  in  a 
reasonable way. 
When  a  broker,  financial  advisor  or  another 
sort of investing agent buys or sells a security 
for  a  client,  and  then  proceeds  to  make  the 
same transaction for himself. 
To  strongly  encourage  investors  to  buy  a 
particular 
security.  Touting  means  an 
intermediary  recommending  sale 
the 
investors  without  disclosing  that  the  person 
recommending  has  received  any  direct  or 
indirect benefit from another for making such 
recommendation. 
The 
issue  of  securities  without  proper 
approvals  or  continued  holding  of  fraudulent 
or  forged  securities,  exercise  of  corporate 
rights and acquisition of further securities on 
account of such securities. 
The method compares profits to a quantifiable 
yardstick, before and after the harmful event.  
A  mathematical  representation  of  a 
situation  in  which  each  participant's 
gain or loss of utility is exactly balanced 
by the losses or gains of the utility of the 
other participants. 
In  the  context  of  securities  market  it 
means  that  the  investors  affected  are 
the  same  as  the  investors  from  whom 
the gain has been derived from and the 
loss 
such 
investors thereabouts equals  the  gain 
derived 
 

caused to 

Words and expressions used but not defined in these Guidelines but defined in the 

Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  the  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulation) Act, 1956 the Depositories Act, 1996 the Companies Act, 2013 or any of 

the rules or regulations made thereunder, shall have the same meanings respectively 

assigned to them in those Acts, rules or regulations or any statutory modification or 

re-enactment thereto.  

 

 
Page | - 325 -  

 

 

CHAPTER III 

 

GENERAL PRINCIPLES 

 

1.  These Guidelines provide non-mandatory guidance and depending on the facts 

and  circumstances  of  each  case  the  relevant  authority  may  deviate  from  or 

modify these guidelines as may be deemed fit or use any method not detailed in 

these guidelines or any combination or modification thereof, for reasons to be 

recorded. 

 

2.  These  Guidelines  may  be  applied,  to  the  extent  possible,  to  all  fact-finding 

inquiries  such  as  investigations,  inspections,  inquiries,  enquiries,  audits 

initiated on or after October 01, 2021 and consequential legal proceedings. 

 

3.  Application of Multiple methods: The relevant fact-finding authority may 

use the available information and indicate in the relevant Report, all or any of 

the possible methods for calculating approximate disproportionate gain derived 

or loss caused to investors as deemed appropriate. 

 
Explanation. - Where it is possible to apply more than one methodology for the 

purpose  of  quantification  of  a  particular  amount,  it  is  not  necessary  for  the 

relevant  authority 

to  apply  all  possible  methods 

in 

its  report/fact 

finding/examination instead any appropriate method(s) may be applied for the 

benefit of the quasi-judicial authority. 

 

4.  Joint liability of offenders: In cases of joint liability for any alleged default, 

generally, the relevant authority, may calculate the gain derived or loss caused 

holistically  on  a  joint,  several  or  ‘joint  and  several  liability  basis’,  as  may  be 

deemed fit.  

 

 
Page | - 326 -  

 

 

5.  Persons  who  may  be  charged  jointly:  The  following  persons  may  be 

charged jointly and their gains and losses quantified jointly, namely, - 

(a) persons accused of the same violation committed in the course of the same 

conduct;  

 Explanation  1.  –  Any  person  who  is  in  charge  of  and  responsible  for  the 

activities of any other person may be charged jointly with the person he is in 

charge of.  

 

Explanation 2. – “in the course of the same conduct” means a group of facts 

so connected together by reason of continuity of action or purpose or cause 

and effect, or as principal and subsidiary acts. 

 

(b)  persons  accused  of  a  non-compliance/violation  of  securities  laws  and 

persons accused of abetment of, or attempt to commit, such violation; 

(c)  persons accused  of  a  non-compliance/violation  of  securities  laws  in the 

nature  of  breach  of 

fiduciary  obligation  and  persons  accused  of 

misappropriation of money or other property which was the subject of such 

fiduciary duty; 

(d) persons accused of different violations of securities laws committed in the 

course of the same conduct; 

(e) persons accused of  a non-compliance/violation of  securities laws in the 

nature  of  fraudulent  and  unfair  trade  practices,  insider  trading  or 

misappropriation, and persons accused of receiving or retaining, or assisting 

in the disposal or concealment of, property possession of which is alleged to 

have  been  transferred  by  any  such  violation  committed  by  the  first-named 

persons,  or  of  abetment  of  or  attempting  to  commit  any  such  last-named 

violation; 

(f) an acquirer and persons acting in concert with such acquirer; 

(g) in case of failure to make, or making of incorrect or false or misleading, 

disclosures, reports, filings, statements, offer documents, or information, the 

 
Page | - 327 -  

 

 

person which signs or issues such document along with persons who prepare 

such  document  (including  experts  involved)  and  persons  who  approve  the 

same; and 

(h) any other classes of persons, as may be deemed fit. 

 

Explanation 1. – The classes of persons mentioned in this guideline may or may 

not be charged jointly depending on the facts and circumstances of each case. 

Explanation 2. – Where there are multiple charges, it is not necessary that all 

persons  to  be  heard  jointly  be  charged  together  in  respect  of  each  and  every 

charge. 

 
 

6.  Quantification  when  not  required:  Quantification  may  not  be  required, 

inter alia, in the following cases, - 

i.  Where  the  relevant  authority  is  satisfied  that  the  penalty  imposed 

would  be  higher  than  any  possible  disproportionate  profit  derived 

from  the  default  or  is  the  maximum  imposable  penalty  under 

securities law; or 

 

ii.  Where  multiple  defaulters  are  involved  and  one  or  more  than  one 

person but not all, have been held jointly or jointly and severally liable 

for  a  particular  default(s),  quantification  may  not  be  required  for 

other defaulter(s) in respect of such default(s); or 

iii. 

In  violations  which  are  generally  considered  to  be  victim-less 

defaults,  such  as  insider  trading,  loss  caused  to  investors  may  not 

require quantification.  

 

 

7.  Zero-sum game scenario: Where loss to the investors and profit made out of 

the default are more or less same, then either profit made or loss caused may be 

calculated using any available methodology. 

 
Page | - 328 -  

 

 

 

 

Explanation.  –  In  cases  where  the  default  does  not  entail  a  ‘zero-sum  game 

scenario’,  the  refund  or  disgorgement  wherever  permitted  under  law  shall  be 

based on the disproportionate gains made, jointly or severally, and not the loss 

caused to investors. 

8.  Determination  of  gain  or  loss  “as  a  result  of  the  default”:  Wherever 

possible, gain derived or loss caused which is causally connected with the default 

should be segregated from gain derived or loss caused which is not so connected, 

in accordance with these Guidelines, to arrive at the disproportionate gain and 

loss caused to investors, as a result of the default.  

Explanation 1. - Uncertainty is inherent  in the act of  the defaulter, hence the 

defaulter shall bear the risk of uncertainty and be liable for any uncertainty in 

the estimation of disproportionate gain made (and loss caused to investors) since 

the  defaulter’s  conduct  has  created  the  uncertainty  in  estimation  of  non-

legitimate gain derived (or loss caused to investors).  

Explanation 2. – Any gain derived or loss caused is said to be causally connected 

if such gain or loss is a direct or proximate result of, or such gain or loss was 

reasonably foreseeable as a result of the violation of securities laws.  

 

Explanation  3.  -  Disproportionate  gain  could  be direct  or  indirect,  in  cash or 

kind, and includes notional gain or unfair advantage of any kind, including any 

loss avoided.  

 

Explanation 4. - “Loss to investors” for the purpose of these Guidelines does not 

include emotional distress, harm to reputation or other non-economic harm. 

 

Explanation 5. -Where disproportionate gain or loss caused to investors, cannot 

be estimated with reasonable approximation, then quantification to the extent 

possible or on ‘at least’ basis may be done. 

 
Page | - 329 -  

 

 

 

Explanation 6. – The following standards may be relied upon to determine the 

gains derived or losses caused as a result of the default, - 

Standard of the Compliant Person; 

i. 

 

ii. 

Standard of the Reasonable Investor; or 

 

 

iii.  Any  other  standard  that  may  suitably  analyse  the  conduct  of  the 

defaulter and segregate and identify the gain made or loss caused by 

the defaulter as a result of the default. 

9.  Application of the principle of Armory v Delamirie: The defaulter shall 

be  responsible  to  supply  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Board,  the  necessary 

information required to calculate disproportionate gain made (or loss caused to 

investors),  which  is  within  his  possession  or  that  which  he  is  in  a  position  to 

obtain. On failure to provide the relevant information, the entire gain derived (or 

loss caused to investors) may be deemed to be as a result of the default and such 

calculation shall be final and any windfall accruing to investors on account of 

such uncertainty which is inherent  in the misconduct of  the defaulter  may be 

made  available  to  the  investors  in  appropriate  proceedings  resulting  from 

disgorgement. 

 

10. Application  of  average  values:  (a)  Average  may  be  applied  wherever 

considered appropriate and average includes weighted averages, mean, median 

or mode as may be considered appropriate. 

 

(b) Wherever appropriate, actual price, average price, weighted average, closing 

prices or average of closing prices during the relevant period may be used;  

 

11. Averaging period: Averaging period may be of a very short duration in case of 

illiquid securities or long (but not exceeding 90 days) in case of liquid securities. 

 
Page | - 330 -  

 

 

Averaging period may be used to calculate appropriate acquisition or sale price 

when  no  price  is  available  or  the  price  available  is  misleading  or  does  not 

consider the market factors affecting price.  

In  non-insider  trading  matters,  if  inspite  of  averaging  period,  the  price  is 

affected by significant market factors (i.e. factors that appear to impact the price 

movement by more than 20%) an approximate deduction as deemed fit may be 

given. 

  

12. Manipulation of securities may be done by fraudulent trading or dissemination 

of false information or any other fraudulent device designed to manipulate the 

securities markets. 

 

13. Default period: Default period means the period during which the default was 

committed  and  may  also  include  any  period  during  which  the  relevant  prior 

events and acts or omissions that enabled the default took place, as well as any 

consequential  events,  acts  or  omissions;  or  any  relevant  sub-period  thereof 

including the period under investigation, audit or inspection, etc. 

 

14. Application of multiple guidelines: On account of the nature of the act or 

omission of the defaulter(s) the quantification of profit made or loss caused may 

include quantification under more than one guideline; 

 

15. Presumption against influence of extraneous factors: For the purpose 

of quantification, the relevant authority may presume that the change in price of 

securities excludes any depression or inflation in the price of security caused by 

factors  other  than  the  misconduct,  unless  the  defaulter  proves  the  relevance 

thereof and such factors are capable of being assessed based on the record and 

as per these guidelines. 

 

16. Other Presumptions: The following presumptions may be relied upon, - 

i.  The  relevant  authority  may  presume  the  existence  of  any  fact  which  it 

thinks  likely  to  have  happened,  due  regard  being  had  to  the  common 

 
Page | - 331 -  

 

 

course of natural events, human conduct and public and private business, 

in their relation to the facts of the particular case, including, - 

a.  That  evidence  which  could  be  and  is  not  produced  would,  if 

produced, be unfavorable to the person who withholds it (or any 

other related person); 

b.  That when a document creating an obligation is in the hands of the 

obligor, the obligation has been discharged, save in case where the 

circumstances of the case are such that he may have stolen it, or 

procured by duress or false representation; and 

c.  That  the  common  course  of  business  has  been  followed  in 

particular cases. 

 

ii.  Where  a  document  would  ex  facie  be  relevant  to  any  inquiry, 

investigation, audit, examination or other proceeding and the defaulter 

knew or reasonably could have known that the violation of securities laws 

was detected or about to be detected by the Board, the non-production of 

such document on the ground of non-maintenance due to the mere lapse 

of a period longer than the period for which such document is required by 

law to be maintained shall be no defence.  

 

iii.  Where there is a question as to the good faith of a transaction by one who 

is in a position of active confidence, the burden of proving the good faith 

of the transaction is on such person. 

Explanation.  -  The  burden  of  proving  that  unpublished  price  sensitive 

transaction has been communicated for a lawful purpose shall be on the 

person so communicating. 

 

iv.  When a person does an act with some purpose other than that which the 

character and circumstances of the act suggest, the burden of proving that 

purpose is upon him. 

 
Page | - 332 -  

 

 

 

Explanation.  -  The  burden  of  proving  that  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information  has  not  been  communicated  shall  be  on  the  person  who 

enters into a communication with a person who trades or enables another 

to trade in a manner which is suggestive of have been done on the basis 

of such information. 

 

v.  When  any  fact  is  especially  within  the  knowledge  of  any  person,  the 

burden of proving that fact is upon him. 

 

vi.  The burden of proving any fact necessary to be proved in order to admit 

any document as evidence or to enable any person to give evidence of any 

other fact is on the person who wishes to rely on such evidence. 

 
vii. 

 

 

Fraudulent funding through transfers shown as ‘loans’ for the purpose of 

enabling a default or which arise as a consequence of such default, which 

a  person  receiving  has  no  intention  to  repay  or  which  are  repaid  from 

funds relating to such default, may be included as siphoned off funds or 

disproportionate gain or considered as his own funds, as the case may be. 

Explanation 1. – Where a person repays a loan subsequent to the time of 

detection of misconduct, he shall be deemed to have no intention to repay 

unless he makes appropriate submissions indicating that such repayment, 

if any, was not on account of such detection. 

Explanation 2. – Where a person submits that a particular transaction is 

a legitimate loan transaction or reversal thereof, it shall be necessary to 

give evidence indicating that the actual net transfers of money took place 

as  well  as  admissible  evidence  (duly  stamped,  registered  and  disclosed 

wherever required by law) indicating the purpose for which the transfers 

were made at the relevant time. 

 
Page | - 333 -  

 

 

17. Wherever, any information, including price is not available for the purpose of 

quantification, these guidelines may be applied to the extent possible. 

Explanation.  –  In  cases  where  data  is  not  made  available  even  after  being 

sought,  the  data  may  be  presumed  as  ‘0’  or  not  applicable  or  arrived  at  by 

extrapolation or by using another other means or reasonable assumptions may 

be made and the methodology modified appropriately. 

 

18. When  UPSI  comes  into  existence:  Where  information  relating  to  the 

contravention of securities laws is in the nature of unpublished price sensitive 

information, such unpublished price sensitive information shall deem to come 

into existence when the contravention was committed and concealed, and not 

when the contravention was detected. 

Explanation. – Where the unpublished price sensitive information pertains to 

the existence of any investigation, inspection, audit or inquiry against a company 

the unpublished price sensitive information shall come into existence when such 

company or the persons in charge of such company first become aware of such 

investigation, inspection, audit or inquiry. 

 

19. Relevance of accounting standards: The accounting standards required to 

be followed by the defaulter shall be relevant but not binding for the purpose of 

quantification and may be applied to the extent possible. 

 

20. Assumption of sale:  Where a security has not been sold during the default 

period, for the purpose of quantification, the security shall be deemed to have 

been sold and sale price shall be calculated as per these guidelines. 

 

21. Round-off: The relevant authority may round-off the disproportionate gains or 

losses caused quantified to the next multiple of 1000. 

 

22. Mere  irregularity  or  error  which  is  not  substantial  shall  not  affect,  any 

approximation of disproportionate gains or losses caused.  

 
Page | - 334 -  

 

 

CHAPTER IV 

 

GUIDELINES ON DEDUCTIONS 

 

1.  Deductions,  if  any,  may  be  permitted  in  accordance  with  these 

guidelines. The defaulter shall be responsible to provide to the satisfaction of 

the  Board  the  necessary  information  required  to  determine  the  deduction 

claimed, failing which such claim shall be denied.  

 

2.  Deduction  of  monies:  Where  monies  raised  by  issue  of  securities  is 

refundable,- 

 

In  proceedings  for  levy  of  penalty: No deduction may be given to the 

defaulters in case of monies/assets are returned/refunded/disgorged, - 

i. 

to avoid detection or to perpetuate ongoing contravention,  

 

ii. 

after detection of the contravention, or 

 

iii. 

payments  made  in  respect  of  initial  investments  to  entice 

additional investments or to conceal the contravention. 

Explanation. – For the purpose of these guidelines, the time of detection of 

the contravention is the earliest of, - 

A.  the time the misconduct was discovered by a Government Agency, 

including  the  Board  or  a  securities  market 

infrastructure 

institution  or  a  self-regulatory  organization,  leading  to  an 

examination into the facts being directed by the relevant authority; 

or  

 

B.  the time the defaulter knew or reasonably could have known that 

the violation was detected or about to be detected under (1). 

 
Page | - 335 -  

 

 

 

 

In proceedings for disgorgement/refund: Deduction may be given in 

respect of the assets returned by the defaulters and duly reported to the Board 

before  the  issuance  of  any  interim  direction,  cease  and  desist  order  or 

direction of disgorgement/refund, as the case may be. 

Explanation. – Where a claim is made that monies have been duly refunded 

to investors, the defaulter shall be liable to prove, - 

A.  the existence of sufficient funds from which monies were refunded; 

and 

 

B.  the  proof  of  refund  through  banking  means  or  by  way  of  direct 

credit  in  the  bank  account  through  NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or  any 

other mode allowed by RBI. 

 

Explanation.  –  Where  despite  a  refund  opportunity  being  provided,  monies 

have not been claimed by investors or where investors to whom monies are due 

cannot be found within reasonable time, such monies shall be deposited in the 

IEPF or IPEF as the case may be.  

 

3.  Deduction for costs of illegal activity: As a general principle, no deduction 

shall  be  given  for  costs  incurred  in  respect  of  conducting  the  violation  of 

securities laws. 

 

4.  Deduction  for  costs  directly  related  to  the  transaction  and 

specifically  for  transaction:  Deduction  in  relation  to  costs  incurred  while 

doing the unlawful transaction in securities which are direct and transaction-

specific, such as stamp duties, STT and CTT shall be allowed; 

Explanation.  –  General  costs 

including  costs 

incurred  for  employees’ 

remuneration are not a transaction-specific cost. 

 
Page | - 336 -  

 

 

5.  Deduction for costs incurred but which remain unpaid: No deduction 

for  costs  (including  taxes)  which  are  due  but  which  remain  unpaid  shall  be 

allowed; 

 

6.  Deduction for leveraged funds: Wherever the trading is done on the basis 

of  leveraged  funds,  no  separate  deduction  shall  be  allowed  for  the  cost  of 

leveraging, beyond the price of acquisition; 

 

7.  Deduction  for  taxes  paid  in  refund  matters:  Deduction  for  taxes  paid 

(other than STT or CTT) shall not be allowed in case of refund obligations under 

securities laws; 

 

8.  Deduction for taxes paid in disgorgement matters: Deduction for taxes 

paid  (other  than  STT  or  CTT)  shall  not  be  allowed  in  case  of  disgorgement 

obligations under securities laws where disbursement to identifiable investors 

may be possible; 

Explanation.  -  Deduction  under  this  guideline  may  be  allowed  where 

disgorgement is directed for victimless defaults such as insider trading. 

 

9.  Deduction for taxes against different  revenue streams: No deduction 

shall  be  allowed  for  taxes  paid  from  gross  receipts  based  on  the  portion  of 

receipts used for payment of taxes in respect of activities other than the activity 

under consideration; 

Explanation. – Where the defaulter has paid taxes for more than one activity, 

including activities not connected to the default, the burden of proving which 

portion of taxes paid is relevant to the default shall be on the defaulter, failing 

which no deduction may be allowed. 

 

10. Deduction  for  taxes  in  penalty  proceedings:  Deduction  of  taxes  paid 

(other  than  STT  or  CTT)  is  not  relevant  for  the  purpose  of  quantifying  gain 

derived while levying penalty. 

 
Page | - 337 -  

 

 

 

 

 

11. Fraudulently  providing  financial  products  and  services  without 

proper 

license  or  approval:  When 

the  defaulter(s)  poses  as  a 

registered/authorized  financial  service  provider  and  represents  that  the 

financial  products  or  services  are  authorized  by  the  Board  or  any  other 

Government Agency, including a securities market infrastructure institution or 

a self-regulatory organization even though they are not or fraudulently obtains 

such authorization for financial goods or services, the defaulter shall receive no 

deduction for the value of the financial products or services are misbranded or 

falsely  represented  regardless  of  the  actual  fitness  or  performance  of  those 

products.  

 

12. Deductions  for  taxes  (other  than  STT  or  CTT)  paid  for  unlawful 

activity: Save as otherwise provided in this Chapter, deduction for taxes (other 

than STT or CTT) paid from gross receipts based on the portion of receipts used 

for  payment  of  taxes  in  respect  of  unlawful  activity  may  be  allowed  in  cases, 

where the defaulter is able to compute and prove to the satisfaction of the Board, 

the co-relation of the relevant portion of taxes for which deduction is claimed 

with the activity under consideration. 

13. Nothing in these guidelines shall affect any right of the defaulter, if any, to seek 

appropriate remedy before the relevant tax authority. 

CHAPTER V 

 

GENERAL GUIDELINES RELATING TO QUANTIFICATION OF DISPROPORTIONATE GAIN 

1.  Disproportionate  Gain  quantification:  The 

quantification 

of 

disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage  under  these  guidelines  is  only  an 

 

 
Page | - 338 -  

 

 

 

approximation, to the extent possible since uncertainty is inherent in the act of 

the defaulter, who shall bear the burden of the uncertainty.  

 

2.  Misconduct affecting derivatives, arbitrages, etc.: It is possible for the 

misconduct to involve manipulation of price and/or volume of a security in one 

segment  or  stock  exchange  and  that  the  disproportionate  gains  accrue  in  a 

different segment or stock exchange in the same security or in a security related 

to such security and that it would amount to manipulation of the security where 

such disproportionate gains accrue. 

 

Explanation. – It is not necessary for the disproportionate gain to only occur in 

the  security  of  the  listed  company  whose  unpublished  price  sensitive 

information is disclosed. It may also be in relation to a security related to such 

security. 

 

3.  Interest to avoid unjust enrichment from what would amount to an 

interest  free  loan  from  investors:  For  the  purpose  of  refund  or 

disgorgement,  unless  otherwise  provided  by  law,  disproportionate  gain, 

wherever quantified, shall include simple interest at the rate of 1% per month 

from the time when gain was accrued till the date of repayment to investors. 

4.  Zero  Sum  scenario  in  an  unregistered  investment  scheme  or 

fraudulent  default.  -  Disproportionate  gains  made  or  loss  to 

investors  as  a  result  of  unregistered 

investment  schemes 

(PMS/AIF/CIS, etc.) or those investment schemes that fail by reason 

of  a  fraudulent  or  unfair  trade  practice,  etc.:  Loss  caused  to  investors 

equal  the  amounts  originally  invested  by  the  investors  and  the  earnings  re-

invested in such schemes, even though those earnings accrued as a result of such 

schemes.  However,  the  most  recent  promised  or  reported  earnings  shall  be 

excluded unless re-invested. 

 
Page | - 339 -  

 

 

Explanation. – Investment schemes in these guidelines also include services of 

portfolio manager, an alternative investment fund and other pooled investment 

arrangements required to be registered with the Board. 

 

5.  Fees  earned  in  respect  of  any  misconduct:  In  case  the  defaulter’s 

misconduct included the provision of services of an intermediary or securities 

market  infrastructure  institution  or  a  professional,  the  ill-gotten  gains  shall 

include the gross fees, commissions, etc. earned in respect of the misconduct.  

Explanation 1. - Where the gross fees are for unlawful as well as lawful activities, 

if  the  substantial  nature  of  the  services  provided  was  in  relation  to  unlawful 

activities, then the entire fees shall  be considered as undue advantage. Else a 

fraction of such gross fees may be taken based on the clarification provided by 

the defaulter. 

 

Explanation  2.  -  In  these  guidelines  an  ‘intermediary  or  securities  market 

infrastructure institutions’ shall include any person required by securities laws 

to be registered or recognized by the Board. 

 

6.  Regulatory charges avoided: In case of any un-authorized or un-recognized 

or un-registered activity, including unauthorized issue of securities, the monies 

that would have been payable as fess, charges, etc., for conducting such activity 

including those payable to the Board, Government, stock exchange, depository 

or clearing corporation, but not paid, shall be included in the disproportionate 

gain made as losses avoided. 

 

7.  Loss avoided while in possession of negative information: Where front 

running  or  insider  trading  is  done  to  avoid  loss  due  while  in  possession  of 

negative unpublished information, the loss avoided is the value of shares sold 

multiplied  by  the  difference  in  price  during  the  relevant  period  after  the 

publication of such information. 

 

 
Page | - 340 -  

 

 

 

8.  Gains made by the person in charge of a juridical person: In case of a 

director, partner, employee or any other person in charge of the actions of a body 

corporate or firm, subject to appropriate quantification made by such defaulter, 

the  disproportionate  gains  may  include  the  entire  remuneration,  commission 

(including secret commissions), share of profits, bonuses, stock options, sweat 

equity, stock sales, any other corporate or pecuniary benefit is received by such 

person  (or  part  thereof)  during  the  relevant  period,  as  may  deemed  fit  after 

considering relevant factors: 

Provided  that,  where  the  default  is  such  that  it  enables  the  defaulter  to  gain 

control of the body corporate or the compensation was substantially tied to the 

default or the body corporate is required to restate its accounts due to substantial 

non-compliance of securities laws due to the default, the entire such benefit may 

be considered to be due as disproportionate gains. 

 

9.  Failure to comply with fiduciary duties: In case of any auditor or other 

professional who has failed to comply with the fiduciary duties under securities 

laws,  the  disproportionate  gain  may  also  include  the  gross  remuneration 

received for conducting his duties or a portion thereof. 

Undisclosed profit: Where a person under a fiduciary duty to investors makes 

an  unauthorized  secret  commission,  profit,  etc.  while  managing  the  funds  of 

investors such gains shall amount to disproportionate gains.  

 

 

CHAPTER VI 

 

GENERAL GUIDELINES RELATING TO QUANTIFICATION OF LOSS 

1.  Loss  quantification:  Loss  quantification  under  these  guidelines  is  only  an 

approximation  on  a  class  basis  and  serves  as  a  guide  for  considering  the 

 
Page | - 341 -  

 

 

 

appropriate penalties to be levied within the range provided by law and does not 

vest in any particular person(s), the right to seek compensation from the Board; 

Explanation. – In these guidelines, unless otherwise proved, loss calculation is 

for  guidance  only  and  not  restitutory  in  nature,  as  direct  co-relation  with 

disproportionate gains made and loss caused to investors may not exist.  

 

2.  Loss to investors may accrue even when no trades are made by the defaulters, 

such as order log manipulation (which amounts to a fraudulent statement made 

to investors through the stock exchange mechanism by entering orders which 

create the impression of a false demand), false tips and messaging, etc. 

 

3.  Loss in non-zero-sum cases: In cases involving fraudulent and unfair trade 

practices cases, where the default does not entail a Zero-sum game scenario, in 

addition  to  the  methods  detailed  in  these  guidelines,  the  loss  to  investors  or 

group of investors may be calculated inter alia using the following methods:  

i. 

Simple Recessionary method; 

ii.  Modified Recessionary method; 

iii.  Market Capitalization method; 

iv.  Modified Market Capitalization method; 

v.  Average loss to the victims method; 

vi.  Any other method determined to be suitable in the given circumstances; or 

vii.  A combination of the aforesaid. 

 

CHAPTER VII 

 

GUIDELINES RELATING TO CONTRAVENTION INVOLVING UNPUBLISHED PRICE 

SENSITIVE INFORMATION, ETC. 

 

1.  Communication  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information 

related  to  Intellectual  Property  Rights  (IPR):  In  case  of  unlawful 

 
Page | - 342 -  

 

 

 
 

 

communication  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  related  to  any 

IPR which is not required to be disclosed at the time of communication and 

loss of such information may result in substantial loss of stock valuation, with 

or without any trading done by the defaulter,- 

 

 

i. 

the  disproportionate  gain  shall  include  the  fair  market  value  of  such 

information, failing which the gain shall equal the cost of developing such 

information;  

Explanation. – Valuation of the information may be done based on the 

applicable accounting principles and cost of developing the information 

can be derived from the costs maintained by the relevant company. 

 

ii. 

loss caused may include loss of profit or loss of business value, as the case 

may be. 

Explanation 1. –  Loss  of business value may be calculated through the 

following methods, - 

d.  The asset-based approach; 

e.  The market approach; 

f.  The income approach; or 

g.  Any other suitable method or combination of methods.  

Explanation 2. – Loss of profit may be calculated through the following 

methods, - 

a.  The sales projection method; 

b.  The before-and-after method; 

c.  The accounting for profits method;  

d.  The yardstick method;  

e.  The market share method; or 

f.  Any other suitable method or combination of methods.  

 
Page | - 343 -  

 

 
 

 

 

2. Special  case  of  default  involving  unfair  informational  advantage: 

Where the conduct involves informational advantage which results in trading, 

including insider trading, trading while in possession of true information when 

false,  incorrect  or  misleading  information  is  circulated  in  securities  market, 

front-running or tailgating by persons in fiduciary capacity, etc., to determine 

the gains from such default, the following methods may be employed, - 

i.  Statistical  methods  (such  as  calculation  of  abnormal  returns  using  event 

studies,  probabilistic  methods,  etc.,  as  may  be  considered  fit)  wherever 

appropriate, preferably if the monies involved exceed Rs. 3 crore; 

ii.  Non-statistical and approximation methods as detailed in these guidelines 

for sale or purchase of securities or both, as the case may be; or 

iii. A combination of i. and ii. 

CHAPTER VIII 

 

GUIDELINES RELATING TO CONTRAVENTION INVOLVING HOLDING NORMS AND 

FAILURE TO PROVIDE EXIT OPPORTUNITY 

1.  Contravention  of  holding  norms:  In  case  of  failure/delay  to  dilute  the 

securities holding as per the required holding norms, the disproportionate gains 

may include the following, - 

i. 

the gains based on the difference in price between the prevailing market 

price when the excess securities are actually disposed (whether or not as 

per the direction of the Board) and the prevailing market price when the 

securities were required to be diluted as per applicable norms, 

Explanation. – any loss caused due to disposal of excess holding shall not 

 

i. 

be used to set-off any other gains made. 

 

the gains made  in  nature  of  excess  dividends,  bonus  shares,  and  other 

corporate  rights  in  proportion  to  the  excess  holding  during  the  delay 

 
Page | - 344 -  

 

 

 

period,  unless  such  corporate  rights  were  part  of  a  dilution  scheme 

permitted by the Board, 

 

ii. 

the gains during the period of excess holding on account of any salary, 

esops, fees,  etc. on account of  any position held in the company which 

would have otherwise not been held without the excess holding. 

2.  Failure  to  give  exit  Opportunity:  In  case  of  failure  to  give  an  exit 

opportunity (open offer/delisting, etc.), the disproportionate gains may include 

the following, - 

 

In case of illiquid securities: 

i. 

The costs avoided based on an approximation using similar issue sizes, 

wherever possible,  

ii. 

The difference between the price at which the exit offer is required to be 

given and prevailing market price, multiplied by the exit size. 

Explanation 1. – In case of an open offer, the entire open offer size may 

not  be  taken,  if  it  is  proven  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Board  that  the 

investors  would  not  have  taken  the  exit  opportunity  in  the  illiquid 

securities and the failure did not prejudice the investors.  

Explanation 2. – In case of an open offer, (ii.) may not apply where the 

prevailing market price, at the time when the open offer is due (without 

delay), is higher than the price at which the offer is to be given.  

 

Explanation 3. – In case of any act or omission caused or allowed by the 

defaulter for making the giving of the exit opportunity infructuous, such 

as compulsory delisting, strike-off, triggering insolvency, etc., the entire 

exit  size  may  be  taken  instead  of  the  difference  based  on  price.  The 

defaulter shall not be allowed to take the benefit of his default, including 

cases where the defaulter’s delay has made the exit infructuous due to the 

 
Page | - 345 -  

 

 

prevailing price being higher than the price (inclusive of interest) at which 

the exit may be given. 

 

In  case  of  liquid  securities: Similarly, as in  case of illiquid  securities, the 

costs avoided and the difference in price shall amount to the gain, save that, - 

i. 

in case the open offer is required to be given solely by persons existing in 

control and their related group entities, the open offer size shall be taken 

as at least 50% thereof or such other lower percentage, as the facts permit, 

if it is proven to the satisfaction of the Board that at the relevant time, the 

investors would not take the exit opportunity in the liquid securities and 

that the failure did not prejudice the investors; 

ii. 

in case the open offer is required to be given by any other person(s), the 

entire open offer size shall be taken as the relevant open offer size or such 

other  lower  percentage,  as  the  facts  permit,  if  it  is  proven  to  the 

satisfaction of the Board that at the relevant time, the investors would not 

take the exit opportunity in the liquid securities and that the failure did 

not prejudice the investors; 

Explanation.  –  In  liquid  securities,  the  Board  may  assume  that  the 

investors would seek exit in the open offer, where the prevailing market 

price, at the time when the open offer is due (without delay), is higher 

than the price at which the offer is to be given. 

iii. 

in  case  of  any  act  or  omission  caused  or  allowed  by  the  defaulter  for 

making the giving of the exit opportunity infructuous, such as compulsory 

delisting, strike-off, triggering insolvency, etc., the entire exit size may be 

taken instead of the difference based on price. The defaulter shall not be 

allowed  to  take  the  benefit  of  his  default,  including  cases  where  the 

defaulter’s delay has made the exit infructuous due to the prevailing price 

being higher than the price (inclusive of interest) at which the exit may be 

given. 

 

 
Page | - 346 -  

 

 

CHAPTER IX 

 

GENERAL GUIDELINES RELATING TO DEFAULT INVOLVING SALE OR PURCHASE OF 

SECURITIES OR BOTH  

 

 

1.  Difference  in  purchase  and  sale  price  to  indicate  profit:  Unless 

otherwise provided in these guidelines or otherwise considered fit by the relevant 

authority, in a default involving sale or purchase or both, the disproportionate 

profit may include the difference between the  sale and purchase of securities, 

subject to one or more of the following guiding principles, - 

i. 

The onus to prove the relevant sale or purchase price (including cases of 

notional profit) of the transactions done within the relevant period, for 

the  purpose  of  quantifying  the  disproportionate  gains,  shall  be  on  the 

defaulter(s), failing which the Board may adopt any reasonable method of 

quantifying the same: 

Explanation.  –  Wherever  required,  the  defaulter  may  rely  on  or  be 

required  to  furnish  his  certified  income  tax  records,  bank  records, 

telecommunication records, transaction details and any other document 

or statement, which is admissible as evidence, in accordance with any law 

relating  to  stamp duty,  registration  or  any  other  applicable  law,  unless 

otherwise permitted.  

 

ii. 

For  the  sale/purchase  carried  out  within  the  default  period,  the 

disproportionate gain may be the difference between the acquisition price 

and sale price. Where, the relevant acquisition or sale purchase price is 

not available or the available value is not relevant to the default period, 

an approximate value in accordance with these guidelines may be used to 

arrive at the relevant gains or losses resulting from the default; 

 

 
Page | - 347 -  

 

 

2.  Computation of Acquisition Price: 

i.  When  historical  acquisition  price  not  relevant  or  price  not 

available, etc.: Where the acquisition price of a security is not available 

and/or the acquisition was made one year or more prior to the default 

period, then a relevant acquisition price  as  may be  deemed reasonable 

from the following may be selected, - 

a.  an averaging period not exceeding 90 days immediately prior to 

the default period may be selected to determine the acquisition 

price  for  determining  the  disproportionate  gain  and  removing 

any legitimate gains; 

 

b.  in  case  of  listing  related  defaults,  where  the  shares  were  held 

prior to allotment of the public issue, any of the following deemed 

reasonable may be used, - 

(i)  allotment price or a suitable fraction thereof; or  

(ii) a fraction of the price average for one month post listing or 

other suitable data set.  

 

c.  Any other method considered reasonable. 

 

ii.  Where securities are acquired within a year before the start of 

the default period: Where securities are acquired within a year before 

the start of the default period, the price at which it is acquired shall be 

relevant acquisition price and if such price is not available, then a price 

deemed reasonable from the following may be selected, - 

a.  Where  securities  have  been  acquired  after  listing  and  the 

acquisition price is not available, the last available closing price 

for 

the  day(s)  on  during  which  the  securities  were 

acquired/credited  to  the  account  of  the  defaulter  (or  person 

 
Page | - 348 -  

 

 

holding on his behalf)/debited from the account of the seller, 

whichever is earlier; 

 

b. 

in case of listing related defaults, the allotment price may be 

used; 

 

c. 

in case of listing related defaults, where the shares were held 

prior  to  the  allotment  process  of  public  issue,  any  of  the 

following deemed reasonable may be used, - 

(i)  allotment price or a suitable fraction thereof; or  

(ii) a fraction of the price average for one month post listing or 

other suitable data set.  

d. 

 Any other method considered reasonable. 

 

3.  Computation of Sale Price: 

i. 

Sale  price  in  general:  Where  securities  are  sold  within  the  default 

period, the sale price shall be the relevant price, and where such price is 

not  available  or  the  securities  have  not  been  sold  during  the  default 

period, the sale price may be selected from any of the following as deemed 

reasonable, - 

a.  to  treat  the  relevant  profit  as  that  profit  gained  when  the 

information was made public and the market had a reasonable 

opportunity  to  digest  the  information.  The  gain  is  to  be 

measured by reference to the market value of the securities at 

that date;  

or 

b.  the price based on the averaging period not exceeding 90 days 

may be selected from the end of the relevant period. 

 

 

 
Page | - 349 -  

 

 

ii.  Where securities were purchased illegally: Where securities were 

purchased illegally by using funds provided directly or indirectly, by the 

issuer or through diversion of issue proceeds, - 

a.  the entire sale price of the securities sold, which were acquired 

through  such  means,  shall  be  deemed 

to  be 

the 

disproportionate gains;  

or 

b.  in case the securities are not sold during the default period, the 

acquisition price or the price based on the averaging period not 

exceeding 90 days may be selected as a sale price from the end 

of the default period, whichever is higher. 

 

4.  Sale of securities subject to lock-in: Where securities subject to a lock-in 

of  any  kind  are  sold,  the  disproportionate  gain  (including  loss  avoided)  shall 

mean the entire sale with deduction for the price immediately after the expiry of 

the lock-in requirement, if available; 

 

5.  Scalping: Disproportionate gains equals the sum of the gross fees charged for 

making the recommendation, the gross fees for facilitating investors to purchase 

through an intermediary and the profits made from personal sales of securities; 

 

6.  In  case  of  acquisition  of  securities  by  issue  of  fraudulent  or 

counterfeit  securities,  or  issue  of  securities  without  proper 

approvals  mandated  by  law:  The  disproportionate  gains  shall  equal  the 

difference between:  

 
(i)  the  market  value  of  such  securities  as  on  the  date  of  purchase,  allotment, 

issue, etc. (or the next trading day, if no price is available) by/to the defaulter(s) 

or the present market value of such securities as on the date of order in case the 

securities  continue  to  be  held,  whichever  is  higher;  and  (ii)  the  actual 

consideration paid for acquiring the securities, if any: 

 
Page | - 350 -  

 

 

 

Provided that where such securities have been sold at a higher price, such price 

may be relevant for calculating the disproportionate gain. 

 

 

Explanation 1. – Uttering of securities: Where the misconduct relates to the 

issue of fraudulent or forged securities, or the issue of securities without proper 

approvals (which voids such issue of securities), the continued holding of such 

securities, exercise of corporate rights and acquisition of further securities on 

account  of  such  securities  shall  amount  to  a  continuing  violation  and  the 

disproportionate profit shall include the accrued benefits.  

 

 

Explanation  2.  -  Where  bonus  securities  or  dividends  have  been  received  on 

such securities, the market value of such bonus securities or dividends received 

shall be included as part of the disproportionate gain. 

 

CHAPTER X 

 

GUIDELINES RELATING TO DEFAULT INVOLVING RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 

1.  In addition to any other guideline applicable, the Director’s profit in relation to 

undisclosed related party transaction shall include profit (or part thereof) made 

on any trades/ESOPS/sweat equity, etc. prior to the disclosure made while in 

possession of such material unpublished price sensitive information relating to 

the transaction; 

 

2.  Directors’ profit in relation to undisclosed related party transaction shall include 

any undue benefit given directly or indirectly, to the related party if the related 

party is a closely held company i.e. a private company or a public company which 

is  not  in  compliance  with  minimum  public  share-holding  norms  and 

substantially controlled by the relatives of the director concerned or the director 

himself, singly or in concert with such relatives at the time of the transaction: 

 
Page | - 351 -  

 

 

 

Explanation 1. – ‘undue benefit’ includes, transactions shown as ‘loans’ which 

the person receiving has no intention of paying back or fraudulently obtained, 

and  includes  any  difference  in  interest  when  the  loan  is  given  at  lower  than 

commercial rate or penal rate, etc. as would have been otherwise applicable. 

Due regard may be given to the value of monies returned prior to the detection 

of the default or the security/collateral provided. 

 

Explanation  2.  -  A  person  shall  be  deemed  to  have  fraudulently  obtained  a 

‘loan’ if,- (1) such loan was not in accordance with the applicable norms and 

practices and such person has ceased to pay his debts in the ordinary course of 

business, or cannot pay his debts as they become due, or (2) the monies were 

fraudulently siphoned off.  

 

Explanation 3. - Unless contrary to the context, ‘Director’ means every director 

who was aware that the transaction was a related party transaction and expressly 

or impliedly approved the transaction with the knowledge that such approval 

was in contravention of law. 

  

Explanation 4. – ‘relative’ means a relative as defined under section 2(77) of 

the Companies Act, 2013 and includes a member of the promoter group. 

  

3.  Loss caused to the company and indirectly to the share-holders may include, loss 

on account of the undisclosed related party transaction, any penalty levied on 

the  company  by  any  financial  sector  regulator  for  non-compliance,  cost  of 

financial restatements and entering into new arrangements on account of the 

default; 

Explanation.  –  ‘loss’  includes,  monies  received  by  the  entity  who  fails  to  pay 

back. 

 

 

 
Page | - 352 -  

 

 

 

CHAPTER XI 

 

GUIDELINES RELATING TO FRAUDULENT AND UNFAIR TRADE PRACTICES, ETC. 

 

 

1.  Overvaluation of Securities due to non-disclosure or manipulation: 

In case of the issue of securities that are overvalued because of disclosure failings 

or by reason of manipulation (to which the issuer is a party) and such securities 

are allotted to the public, the disproportionate gain made, shall include: 

[Allotment  price  –  Closing  Price  of  such  security  as  on  the  date  immediately 

following the day when the misconduct ends or after the public dissemination of 

true information, whichever is appropriate] * total number of shares allotted to 

public investors: 

Explanation  1.  –  It  is  possible  that  the manipulation  may  be done  in already 

existing securities to make a further issue of securities attractive to investors. 

 

Explanation  2.  -  In  these  guidelines,  dissemination  of  true  information  is 

dissemination of any information which is contrary to the false information and 

such information is absorbed by the market, though it is not the complete truth. 

2.  Bucketing by an intermediary: In case of bucketing by an intermediary, the 

disproportionate  gain  shall  equal  the  difference  in  prices  retained  by  the 

intermediary and the gross brokerage, commission, fees, etc. charged. 

 

3.  Churning  and  burning  by  intermediaries:  In  case  of  churning  and 

burning  by  intermediaries  to  generate  more  commission-based  income,  the 

disproportionate gains shall include the gross remuneration earned on the client 

account, for the period of default. 

  

 
Page | - 353 -  

 

 

4.  Capping and Pegging: In case of ‘Capping and Pegging’, the disproportionate 

gains shall include: 

i. 

In case of capping: the premium collected, if any and the loss avoided 

based on the difference between the strike price and the closing price on 

the  day  after  the  manipulation  has  ended/expiration  date,  whichever  is 

later; 

ii. 

In case of pegging: the value gained is based on the difference between 

the strike price and the closing price on the day after the manipulation has 

ended/expiration date, whichever is later; 

[in case forecasting using statistical methods is possible for options, the 

same may be used to calculate the difference between the expected and the 

actual deviated prices.] 

 

5.  Misconduct to inflate, deflate or maintain the price of securities: 

i. 

In case of misconduct to inflate or maintain the price of securities to avoid 

losing  pledged  or  loaned  shares  or  to  avoid  a  margin  call,  the 

disproportionate  gains  shall  include  the  amount  of  money  that  the 

defaulter would have been required to pay to avoid the sale of the pledged 

shares or the value of the margin to be called, whichever is applicable: 

Explanation.  -  It  is  sufficient  that  the  pledgor  has  knowledge  that  the 

misconduct  inflates  or  maintains  the  price  or  it  is  done  at  his  behest  or 

instruction. 

 

ii. 

Similarly, in case of misconduct to inflate or maintain price of securities to 

force  a  conversion  of  a  convertible  debt  instrument  into  equity,  the 

disproportionate gains shall include the difference between the value of the 

debt  converted  (inclusive  of  interest)  and  the  value  of  the  equity 

instruments  allotted  on  conversion,  based  on  an  averaging  period  not 

exceeding  90  days  after  the  misconduct  has  ended  or  after  the  public 

dissemination of true information, whichever is appropriate. 

 
Page | - 354 -  

 

 

 

iii. 

In case of misconduct to deflate the price of securities in order to purchase 

the securities  at a lower price, the gains shall  include the notional  gains 

based on the difference between the price before the manipulation (or the 

price after the manipulation, whichever is higher) and the price at which 

the securities are acquired; 

 

6.  Fraudulent dealing to  avoid tax burden: In case of  fraud  in  connection 

with  the  dealing  of  securities  for  intentional  ‘buying  of  losses’  by  fraudulent 

dealing,  the  disproportionate  gains  shall  include  the  tax  avoided  through  the 

fraudulent dealing, if any; 

 

7.  Default done to ensure success of public issue: In case the default is done 

to ensure the success of an issue of securities, the disproportionate gains shall 

include, the loss aversion of the sunk cost of the issue process and the cost of 

refund avoided; 

 

8.  Touting and Mis-selling: 

i. 

In  case  of  touting,  the  disproportionate  gains  shall 

include  the 

commissions  received  from  the  investors  and  the  value  of  the  benefit 

received. 

 

ii. 

In  case  of  mis-selling,  the  disproportionate  gains  shall  include  the 

commissions, fees earned in relation to the mis-selling or the period during 

which the mis-selling was done, as deemed fit. 

 

iii. 

In case of touting and mis-selling, the loss caused to investors as a result of 

the failure or subsequent sale of the related security shall be considered as 

loss caused due to such default, if the default is the proximate cause of the 

loss.  

 
Page | - 355 -  

 

 

 

9.  In case of inter-positioning by an intermediary to generate risk-less profit on 

proprietary account by inter-posing between client orders, the disproportionate 

gains shall include the gains made on such trading and the commissions made; 

 

10. In case of portfolio-pumping of fund’s holding, the gains made shall include 

any commissions, fees, etc. made during the period from the manipulation to 

the closing of the day after the manipulation has ended (or the announcement 

of the relevant results, whichever is later); and loss to the investors shall include 

the  trading  costs  incurred  by  the  fund  (MF/AIF/REIT/InVIT/PMS,  etc.)  to 

undertake the portfolio pumping including the losses incurred by the fund for 

making the default;  

 

11.  Unlawful conversion, misappropriation or destruction of securities 

including physical securities resulting in permanent loss: The value of 

the funds and the fair market value of the securities and other corporate assets 

(e.g. non-demat securities) are unlawfully taken and disposed of or destroyed, 

or  if  it  is  impracticable  to  determine  the  fair  market  value  or  such  value 

inadequately measures the harm caused, the cost of replacing that property may 

represent the disproportionate gain made or loss caused to investors. 

If for some reason, the market value of the security cannot be determined, the 

following methods may be used - 

i.  The manageable profit-basis method (the Earning Per Share Method); 

ii.  The net worth method or the break value method, or 

iii.  Any other suitable method. 

 

Provided  that  if  third  party  assets  have  been  misused  in  contravention  of 

segregation  norms  and  if  such  assets  have  been  restored  then  instead  of  full 

value of the assets, the profit shall be determined at the rate of 1% per month 

 
Page | - 356 -  

 

 

simple  interest  on  the  value  of  such  assets,  to  remove  any  financial  benefit 

derived from the interest-free use of such assets. 

 

12. In case of marking the close, the gains made can be based on the difference 

in  value  of  the  future/option  or  quarterly/annual  portfolio  or 

index 

reference/valuation  points  during  the  period  of  the  manipulation  and  on  the 

closing of the day after the manipulation has ended (or the announcement of the 

relevant results, etc., whichever is later). 

***************** 

ii.  Determination  of  profits  made  and  losses  caused  are  an  essential  complement  for 

proving the violation of securities laws and in fact supplement the fact-finding inquiry 

and does not require a separate inquiry. Hence, investigation, inspection, inquiry and 

audit  processes  of  the  Board  should  require  the  relevant  authority  to  examine  the 

aspects necessary to quantify, during the investigation, inspection, inquiry and audit 

process itself, as doing so will also serve as an apercu to form the line of inquiry, since 

‘following the money’ is a salutary principle of any investigation.  

 

iii.  A  positive  mandate  be  given  to  the  Department  of  Economic  and  Policy  Analysis, 

Legal Affairs Department and IVD (dealing with Forensic Accounting) of the Board 

to  undertake  an  ongoing  analysis  of  the  various  methods  employed  by  various 

regulators  globally  to  enable  their  adoption  by  the  Board  and  updation  of  the 

quantification approaches recommended in this report and explore the possibility of 

utilizing available software for carrying out complex calculations191 or their in-house 

development; 

 

iv.  A  permanent  technical  standing  committee  be  formed  consisting  of  officers  of  the 

Board,  economists,  lawyers,  statisticians,  auditors  and  fund  managers  to  help  the 

                                                           
191 
<https://www.sas.com/en_in/home.html>; <https://www.stata.com/> and <https://www.eventstudytools.com/>. 

<https://wrds-www.wharton.upenn.edu/pages/analytics/>; 

See 

<https://www.r-project.org/>; 

 

 
Page | - 357 -  

 

Board on an ongoing basis to review of the manner of quantification to be carried out 

by the Board; 

 

v.  Wherever the investigative/inspection/audit authority require assistance, including 

matters requiring statistical methods, they may seek the assistance of the Department 

of  Economic  and  Policy  Analysis  for  quantification.  Wherever  required  SEBI  may 

refer the matter to the permanent technical standing committee for guidance. 

 

vi.  The  Board  may  also  consider  corresponding  with  the  USA-SEC  and  Italian 

Companies  and  Exchange  Commission  to  gain  from  their  experiences  and 

incorporate their methods of quantification. While we have recommended many of 

the well-established methods adopted by global regulators, closer contacts with such 

regulators  will  help  the  Board  and  its  staff  in  making  appropriate  decisions  for 

determining the parameters to be employed in using these methods. 

 

vii.  As a mid-term goal, the Board may consider developing an in-house software or such 

software through  suitable  service  providers192,  for  the  purpose  of  quantification  of 

disproportionate  gains  and  loss  to  investors  based  on  the  experience  gained  after 

implementing the suggested guidelines.  

 

viii.  Unlike  settlements  in  other  kinds  of  disputes  which  are  privately  negotiated, 

settlement amounts in securities laws are arrived at using publicly available formula. 

This has been done to further transparency in matters of public interest. However, it 

is seen that transparency in settlement mechanism is open to arbitrage and defaulters 

try to game the enforcement mechanism by not going for settlement because there is 

no similar guidance for adjudication of penalties. Further, there is no uniformity even 

with  respect  to  penalties  levied  by  different  adjudicating  officers  in  respect  of  the 

same defaults. The Finance Act, 2018 has also empowered the Board to levy penalties, 

thus there is a possibility that different WTMs may impose differing penalties for the 

same kind of violation. Though there are existing internal circulars on levy on penalty 

                                                           
192 
<https://www.sas.com/en_in/home.html>; <https://www.stata.com/> and <https://www.eventstudytools.com/>. 

<https://wrds-www.wharton.upenn.edu/pages/analytics/>; 

See 

<https://www.r-project.org/>; 

 

 
Page | - 358 -  

 

they do not appear to have been applied consistently. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in 

Adjudicating  Officer,  SEBI  v  Bhavesh  Pabari193  has  inter  alia  held  that  various 

relevant factors can be taken into account while adjudicating the levy of penalty and 

clauses (a) to (c) [factors relating to profit made, loss caused and repetitive nature of 

default] in Section 15-J of the SEBI Act are merely illustrative and are not the only 

grounds/factors  which  can  be  taken  into  consideration  while  determining  the 

quantum  of  penalty.  Accordingly,  Regulation  32  of  the  recently  issued  SEBI 

(Settlement Proceedings) Regulations, 2018 inter alia provides that the Schedule –II 

(dealing  with  quantification  of  settlement  amount)  of  those  regulations  shall  be 

relevant to proceedings before the Board or the Adjudicating officers and they may 

apply the same to the extent possible. Hence to raise the standard of administration 

of justice and to ensure that defaulters do not game the enforcement mechanism of 

the  Board,  it  may  be  essential  to  issue  non-mandatory  public  guidelines  for  the 

purpose of levy of penalty to ensure the application of Schedule-II with appropriate 

modification and various judicial pronouncements while preserving the discretion of 

quasi-judicial  authorities.  Hence  the  Board  may  consider  issuing  the  following 

guidance to the officers, - 

GUIDELINES FOR LEVY OF PENALTY 

 

  
 

 GENERAL PRINCIPLES FOR DETERMINATION OF APPROPRIATE PENALTY 

 

For the purpose of arriving at an appropriate penalty to be levied on the persons 
who  violate  securities  laws,  the  consideration  of  relevant  factors,  including  the 
following factors is also required, -  

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

the  amount  of  disproportionate  gain  or  unfair  advantage,  wherever 
quantifiable, as a result of the default;  
the amount of loss caused to an investor or group of investors as a result 
of the default; and 
the repetitive nature of default. 

 

                                                           
193 
<https://www.supremecourtofindia.nic.in/supremecourt/2013/36291/36291_2013_Judgement_28-Feb-2019.pdf >. 

available 

2019 

(3) 

SCALE 

447, 

at 

 

 
Page | - 359 -  

 

 

In view of the same the following non-mandatory guidance is being issued by the 
Board  for  levy  of  penalty  under  securities  laws  in  rescission  of  existing  internal 
circulars,- 
 

A.  This  guidance  may  be  applied  to  all  proceedings  for  the  levy  of  penalty 

initiated on or after the date of issuance of these guidelines; 
 

B.  Deviation from this guidance may be for reasons to be recorded in the order 

imposing penalty; 
 

C.  Second Schedule to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Settlement 
Proceedings)  Regulations,  2018  read  with  Regulation  32  of  those 
Regulations, is relevant  for determining the Indicative Penalty (IP) which 
may be levied.  
 
In doing so, - 

a.  Chapter  VII  of  the  Second  Schedule  provides  guidance  for 
consideration  of  the  ‘repetitive  nature  of  the  default’  and  hence 
repetitive defaults may be considered accordingly. 
Explanation 1. - A ‘repetitive’ default shall not include a ‘continuing’ 
default. 
Explanation 2. – A default may be a ‘continuing’ default if depending 
upon  the  language  of  securities  laws  which  create  that  default,  the 
nature of the default, and above all, the purpose which is intended to 
be  achieved  by  securities  laws  constituting  the  particular  act  as  a 
continuing default, and such contravention is not of a procedural or 
formal  nature  or  it  goes  against  the  very  grain  of  the  statutory 
provision  under  consideration  or  is  expressly  recognized  to  be  a 
continuing  default  or  provides  a  penal  liability  or  an  injury  which 
continues until the requirement is complied with. 
 

b.  The IP may be calculated mutatis mutandis on the lines of calculating 

the IA under the Second Schedule. For determining the IP, - 

PCF shall be 0.85; 

i. 
ii.  Reputation risk factor shall not be applicable;  
iii.  The IP shall not be less than the minimum penalty to be levied 
under  securities  laws  and  not  exceed  the  maximum  penalty 
permitted under securities laws; and 

iv.  Quantification of profit made and loss caused may be based on 

the guidelines issued by the Board, if any. 
 

D.  For  defaults  where  the  maximum  penalty  under  securities  laws  is  not  a 

multiple of the disproportionate profit made, - 

a.  If the profit made is less than the maximum penalty under law, then 
if considered appropriate, the penalty shall not be less than the profit 
made or the minimum penalty under law, whichever is higher; 

 
Page | - 360 -  

 

 

b.  If the profit made is more than the maximum penalty under law, then 
if considered appropriate, the penalty shall be the maximum penalty 
under law. 
 

E.  For defaults where the maximum penalty under securities laws extends to 
three  times  the  profit  made,  but  disgorgement  or  refund  of  the 
disproportionate profit made is contemplated or direction to disgorge has 
been  issued  but  not  been  complied  with,  if  considered  appropriate,  the 
penalty  imposed  may  not  be  less  than  the  profit  made  or  the  minimum 
penalty under law, whichever is higher. 
 

F.  In cases where the penalty under securities laws extends to three times the 
profit made and if the loss caused to investors exceeds the profit made by a 
multiple of 500 or more, then if considered appropriate, the penalty may not 
be less than the profit made but be not more than twice such profit or twice 
the minimum penalty under law, whichever is higher.  
 

G.  In cases the where the penalty under securities laws extends to three times 
the profit made and if the loss caused to investors exceeds the profit made 
by a multiple of less than 500, then if considered appropriate, the penalty 
may not be less than twice the profit made or thrice the minimum penalty 
under law, whichever is higher. 
 

H.  For the purpose of levying penalty, the profit made may be calculated jointly, 

severally or jointly and severally. 
 

I.  The IP may be adopted and levied as penalty if deemed appropriate to the 

nature of the default. 
Explanation. -It is clarified that any approximations, errors or irregularities 
while calculating in accordance with these guidelines shall not invalidate the 
penalty  levied,  if  the  quasi-judicial  authority  imposing  penalty  is  satisfied 
that the penalty levied is appropriate. 

********* 

 

 

ix.  Economic litigation is  becoming more and more complex every day; a defaulter 

guided by greed may trigger regulatory responses that he may not fully fathom. 

Such instances are not unique to securities laws, but are found in various economic 

litigation such as taxation, anti-dumping/injury margin calculation. This does not 

mean that advanced regulatory responses should be confined to a highly educated 

defaulter, well versed in law, economics, statistics, etc. The law requires that the 

defaulter be given an  opportunity to reply to the charge either by himself  or by 

 
Page | - 361 -  

 

 

 

competent  professionals  that  he  may  appoint.  The  proposed  guidelines  permit 

such  response.  It  must  be  made  clear  at  the  outset  that  the  Committee  is  not 

recommending  the  creation  of  any  ‘new’  statistical  approaches.  It  is  only 

suggesting  the  adoption  mutatis  mutandis  of  existing  approaches  for  which 

literature and competent professionals exists. Though defaulters may cite difficulty 

in understanding these approaches, they are primarily responsible for the adoption 

of  these  methods  and  like  the  Board,  they  too  may  seek  relevant  competent 

professional assistance. However, mindful of the difficulties in these methods, the 

Committee  recommends  that  the  Board  may  also  consider  including  course 

material  in  relation  to  quantification  in the  securities  courses  conducted  by  the 

NISM,  Government  law  College,  Mumbai  and  any  other  legal  institution  or 

establishment  imparting  a  course  in  securities  laws.  Similarly,  in  line  with  the 

international practices, presentations may be made to the Tribunal on a regular 

basis by its specialist officers, to enable incorporation of views of the Bench to be 

considered while developing the Board’s quantification methodology and enable 

market participants, the Bar and the Bench to become conversant with the manner 

of quantification to be adopted by the Board and enable exchange of ideas.  

***************** 

 
Page | - 362 -  

 

PART-D 

 

INTERFACE BETWEEN SECURITIES LAWS AND INSOLVENCY LAW

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

INTERFACE BETWEEN SECURITIES LAWS AND INSOLVENCY LAW 

AN INTRODUCTION 

 

The promulgation of the IBC has a significant ongoing impact on the enforcement of 
laws and the securities laws are no exception. Due to the low threshold levels for filing 

an insolvency petition and due to time-bound resolution process envisaged under the 

IBC a large number of corporate insolvency cases have been initiated. However due to 

the evolving nature of the IBC there is lack of clarity on several legal issues leaving 

them open to diverging interpretation by courts, tribunals, government agencies and 
the  IBBI  from  time  to  time.  For  e.g.  in  the  matter  of  ACPC  Enterprises  v  Affinity 

Beauty Salon Pvt Ltd,194 the NCLT held that when subscription money advanced for 

purchase of shares was refundable it was not a ‘financial debt’, hence the applicant was 

not  a  ‘financial  creditor’  and  thus  refused  to  order  the  initiation  of  insolvency 
proceedings.  However, in relation to Collective Investment Schemes, where monies 

became refundable the NCLT held that this as an “operational debt” and admitted the 

application  for  insolvency.195  SEBI  has  taken  the  consistent  stand  before  various 

forums that such monies are refundable as ‘monies held in trust’. This argument is in 

accordance with its statutory mandate and in the interest of investors since it would 

safeguard  such  monies  from  being  pooled  into  the  ‘Liquidation  Estate’  or  the 

‘Bankruptcy Estate’ to satisfy the claims of creditors, including secured creditors. In 

the face of such conflicting decisions with the interest of investors at stake, this issue 

therefore warrants a detailed examination by the Committee. 
 

The Committee is guided by the statutory triple mandate of the Board [(i) to protect 

the interests of investors in securities; (ii) to promote the development of, and (iii) to 

regulate  the  securities  market]  while  considering  the  effect  of  the  IBC  on  the 

enforcement  process  of  the  Board.  Further,  the  Committee  has  examined  various 

                                                           
194 Order dated 10.11.2017 [2018] 145 SCL 47 (NCLT-Delhi). 
195  Eknath  Aher  v  Royal  Twinkle  Star  Club  Ltd.,  NCLT  order  dated  02.05.2017,  available  at 
<https://ibbi.gov.in//webadmin/pdf/order/2017/Jun/2ndMay2017RoyalTwinkleStarClub.pdf>, and Sayali Rane v 
Cytrus 
at 
<https://ibbi.gov.in//webadmin/pdf/order/2017/Jun/2ndMay2017CytrusCheck.pdf>.  Presently 
the  Hon’ble 
Supreme Court has appointed a joint sale-cum-monitoring committee vide order dated 10.05.2018 in the matter 
of Anant Kajare v Eknath Aher, available at <https://indiankanoon.org/doc/194062162/>. 

02.05.2017, 

available 

Check 

NCLT 

order 

dated 

Inns 

Ltd., 

 

 
Page | 364  

 

aspects of the Indian, UK and USA law to further the point that the basic principles of 
law relating to insolvency are same irrespective of jurisdiction and that the interests of 

investors need to be recognised accordingly.  

 

I.  TRUSTS, INCLUDING QUISTCLOSE TRUST196: THE NATURE OF MONIES DUE TO 

INVESTORS UNDER SECURITIES LAWS. 

 

The nature of  monies due to investors under securities laws is an important  aspect 

since the Board issues a large number of refund orders relating to deemed public issue 

and other issues by unregistered entities. Different courts and tribunals have espoused 
different views without clear and cogent reasons. Due to the nascent development of 

private  securities  litigation  in  India,  this  issue  needs  in-depth  examination  for  the 

benefit of all. 

 
When investors make a subscription to an issue of securities, the allotment and listing 

of  securities  should  be  done  in  compliance  with  securities  laws  and  in  the  absence 

thereof, the entire amount becomes refundable.197 In re Nanwa Gold Mines ltd.198 the 

court dealt with this issue for the first time under the company law and inter alia held 

as follows,- 

“Is  the  relationship  of  the  subscribers  to  the  company  that  of  creditor  and 
debtor, or had they a lien on this fund or an equity against it so as to be able to 
attach it for the payment of their debt without allowing other creditors of the 
company to share with them? 
… 
Section 51 of the Companies Act, 1948, is (according to the side-note to the 
section of the statute) concerned with “Allotment of shares and debentures to 
be  dealt  in  on  stock  exchange”;  and  it  refers  to  statements  in  prospectuses 

                                                           
196 This particular kind of trust is known as a quistclose trust after the landmark judgment of the House of Lords 
in Barclays Bank Ltd. v. Quistclose Investments Ltd. [1968] 3 All ER 651 ; [1969] 39 Comp Cas 105 (HL); this 
principle has been applied in Indian securities litigation also, see Bank of Baroda v Fairgrowth Financial Services 
ltd., [1994] 80 Comp 857 (Bom); RBI v Bank of Credit and Commerce International (Overseas) Ltd. [1993] 78 
Comp Cas 230 (Bom), 1992 (3) BomCR 81 Raymond Synthetics ltd. & Ors. v Union of India & Ors., AIR 1992 
SC 847 : 1992 (73) CompCas 762 (SC) : 1992 (2) SCC 255 : 1992 (1) SCR 481;  Universal Incast ltd. v Appellate 
Authority, SEBI & Ors., 2002 (108) CompCas 248 (P&H) : 2000 (125) PLR 256; Rich Paints ltd. v Vadodara 
Stock  Exchange  ltd.,  1998  (92)  CompCas  282  (Guj);  RBI  v  Bank  of  Credit  and  Commerce  International 
(Overseas) ltd. (No. 1), 1993 (78) Comp Cas 207 (Bom);  RBI v Bank of  Credit  and Commerce International 
(Overseas) ltd., 1993 (78) Comp Cas 230 (Bom). 
197 Sections 69 and 73 of the Companies Act, 1956; Sections 39 and 42 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Companies 
(Prospectus and Allotment of Securities) Rules, 2014 
198 [1955] 1 WLR 1080. 

 

 
Page | 365  

 

about applications for leave to deal with shares proposed to be allotted, and 
provides that the company shall repay the money where permission is refused. 
… 
That appears to be an attempt to erect, so to speak, by statute a kind of trust 
for applicants in a case of this sort. It is irrelevant here, because in this case the 
directors promised to do this very thing. No doubt that was only a compliance 
with the statute; but they did promise to do so, and I think that their promise 
is of contractual effect, so I need not consider whether, if there was no promise 
but only the statutory obligation, the position would be the same. I incline to 
think  it  would  be  so,  and  that  the  object  of  section  51  (3)  was  to  provide 
protection for persons who pay money on the faith of promises of this kind. 
… 
I am accordingly of opinion that the moneys in question are repayable to the 
persons who subscribed in answer to the circular dated July 28, 1953, and do 
not form part of the general assets of the company.” 
 

Monies advanced for subscription to securities are advanced conditionally. Hence the 

law  impresses  them  with  a  trust.  If  the  conditions  of  a  lawful  allotment  (including 

listing)  are  not  fulfilled,  the  monies  are  refundable  and  cannot  be  claimed  by  the 

creditors of an insolvent debtor. It is this refundable obligation flowing from the law 

of trust that forms the basis of SEBI’s refund orders. This principle has been accepted 
by Indian courts and extended even to the banks i.e. to the banker to the issue who is 

appointed  by  the  issuer  through  the  merchant  banker  to  hold  these  proceeds.  The 

introduction  of  subscription  through  ASBA  makes  no  difference  since  the  monies 

continue to be held in trust for the purpose of the issue. The trust is not extinguished 

merely  on  the  allotment  of  securities  without  compliance  of  applicable  law,  it 

continues till the moneys are actually returned by the bank to the company and/or to 

the subscribers and even thereafter till the statutory obligations pertaining thereto are 

actually  complied  with.199  The  Indian  company  law  and  courts  have  adopted  the 

                                                           
199 RBI v Bank of Credit and Commerce International (Overseas) Ltd. [1993] 78 Comp Cas 230 (Bom), 1992 (3) 
BomCR 81, inter alia holding as follows: 

“The trust continues till the moneys are actually and factually handed over by the bank to the company 
and/or to the subscribers and even thereafter till the statutory obligations pertaining thereto are actually 
complied with.  
… 
In the abovereferred judgment of the House of Lords [Barclays Bank Ltd. v. Quistclose Investments Ltd.], 
it was held that even moneys advanced as a loan could be treated as impressed with trust when the moneys 
were advanced for a specific purpose, the same were duly earmarked and the relevant stipulation attached 
to the advance of moneys for a specific purpose were brought to the knowledge of the bank while depositing 
the amount in a separate account. It was held by the court that the mere fact that the transaction originated 
as  a  loan  by  itself  did  not  destroy  the  character  of  the  amount  being  trust  fund  or  the  amount  being 
considered as impressed with a trust for a specific purpose 
.… 
I hold that the relevant provisions of the statute already referred to hereinabove create a statutory trust in 
respect of the amounts forwarded by the subscribers, whether lying with the company or with the bank, to 
 
Page | 366  

 

 

principle of quistclose trust in commercial law in line with the approach of UK law. 
Such a trust is an automatic trust imposed by securities law and not a discretionary 

remedial trust.200  

 

Thus, it makes no difference whether the funds have been raised without following the 
issue  process  or  without  obtaining the  registration  certificate201  required  under  the 

SEBI Act. In both cases, the law of trusts is applicable and the monies are impressed 

with a trust. Trust property does not form part of the estate of the company so as to be 

available for the company’s creditors. Trust property is excluded whether the trust is 

express, implied, constructive or resulting or is imposed by statute.202  
 

In such cases, it is immaterial if the scheme is not registered or authorized under any 

enactment.  It  makes  no  difference  whether  the  funds  have  been  raised  without 

following  the  issue  process  and  obtaining  the  registration  certificate  or  without 

                                                           

the extent of allotment money for the benefit of the company and to the extent of the balance for the benefit 
of the subscribers. The moneys were forwarded as specific deposits for a specific purpose. The moneys in 
question were duly earmarked and segregated. Apart from statutory trust referred to hereinabove, I further 
hold that the first respondent-bank received the said amount in a fiduciary capacity under the contractual 
arrangement as a banker to the issue and the concept of trust and fiduciary capacity is clearly spelt out from 
the terms of the prospectus on which the company, the subscribers as well as the bank acted. I hold that the 
applicants are entitled to receive the amounts in question from the respondents in full. I allow the claim of 
Ceeta  Polymers  Ltd.  with  interest  at  15%  per  annum  from  July  12,  1992.  I  allow  the  claim  of  Varun 
Shipping Company Ltd. without interest.” 
Bailey  & 

Angove’s 

available 

UKSC 

ltd., 

47, 

200 
<https://www.bailii.org/uk/cases/UKSC/2016/47.html>, inter alia holding that,- 

[2016] 

Anr. 

PTY 

v 

at 

“27.  English  law  is  generally  averse  to  the  discretionary  adjustment  of  property  rights,  and  has  not 
recognised the remedial constructive trust favoured in some other jurisdictions, notably the United States 
and  Canada.  It  has  recognised  only  the  institutional  constructive  trust:  Westdeutsche  Landesbank 
Girozentrale v Islington London Borough Council [1996] AC 669, 714-715 (Lord Browne-Wilkinson), 
FHR European Ventures LLP v Cedar Capital Partners LLC [2015] AC 250, at para 47. In the former case, 
the difference was explained by Lord Browne-Wilkinson in the following terms: 

“Under an institutional constructive trust, the trust arises by operation of law as from the date of the 
circumstances which give rise to it: the function of the court is merely to declare that such trust has 
arisen in the past. The consequences that flow from such trust having arisen (including the possibly 
unfair  consequences  to  third  parties  who  in  the  interim  have  received  the  trust  property)  are  also 
determined by rules of law, not under a discretion. A remedial constructive trust, as I understand it, is 
different. It is a judicial remedy giving rise to an enforceable equitable obligation: the extent to which 
it operates retrospectively to the prejudice of third parties lies in the discretion of the court.”” 

Also see S Kotrabasappa v Indian Bank AIR 1987 Kant 236. 
201 See G. R. Deo, Liquidator, C.P. and Berar Government Clerks’ Mutual benefit Fund, Nagpur v F Karim and 
Anr, AIR 1946 Nag 196. 
202  Royston  Miles  Goode,  Principles  of  Corporate  Insolvency  Law,  4th  edition,  pp  212-213,  available  at 
<https://books.google.co.in/books?id=mtK4kQIhEowC&printsec=frontcover&dq=principles+of+corporate+ins
olvency+law&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwi6u5f-
45ngAhXLso8KHaPdA7kQ6AEILTAA#v=onepage&q=principles%20of%20corporate%20insolvency%20law
&f=false>. 

 

 
Page | 367  

 

obtaining the registration certificate203 In both cases, the law of trusts is applicable 
and  the  monies  are  impressed  with  a  trust.  Recently,  SEBI  successfully  obtained 

judgment  from  the  Federal  Court  of  Australia  in  the  matter  of  Kadam  &  Ors.  v 

MiiResorts Group 1 Pty Ltd & Ors.204, by utilising the law of trusts in respect of monies 

siphoned  off  from  an  unregistered  collective  investment  scheme.  In  this  respect  of 
super-priority of beneficiaries, a cue may be had from insolvency law, where courts 

generally deal with claims from beneficiaries and creditors over the assets of the debtor 

on the ground that the assets did not become part of the property of the debtor and are 

therefore  not  divisible  among  its  creditors,  whether  or  not  they  have  been  held 

formally in trust as long as the monies have been impressed with a character which 
prevents it from becoming the property of the debtor.205 

 
In the case of  Ganesh Export & Import Co. v Mahadeolal Nathmal,206 the Hon’ble 

Calcutta High Court, inter alia, held as follows: 

“7.  A  truster  of  monies  can  claim  a  refund  from  an  insolvent  company  in 

priority over all creditors, not on the ground  that  an obligation to return 

trust property must be discharged before an obligation to repay debts, but 

on the ground that the monies never became the property of the company 

and are not therefore divisible among its creditors. If the monies have been 

kept separate, they must be handed back. Even if they have been mixed up 

with other funds of the company, an equal amount, if available, must first be 

extracted and paid over to the truster, subject to such deductions, if any, as 

may be provided for by the trust itself. In order, however, that a property 

dated 

Judgment 

                                                           
203  See  G.  R.  Deo,  Liquidator,  C.P.  and  Berar  Government  Clerks’  Mutual  Benefit  Fund, 
Nagpur v F Karim and Anr, AIR 1946 Nag 196. Also see, Securities and Investment Board v 
Pantell SA (No. 2), (1992) BCLC 58 (Ch D); and on appeal Sub nom Securities and Investment 
Board v Pantell SA (No. 2), (1993) BCLC 146 (CA). 
204 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/sep-
2018/1536728840793.pdf>; 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/sep-
2018/1536728821892.pdf>. 
205  Ganesh  Export  &  Import  Co.  v  Mahadeolal  Nathmal,  AIR  1956  Cal  188  :  1955  (25) 
CompCas 357 (Cal); Baroda Spinning & Weaving Mills Co. Ltd v Baroda Spinning & Weaving 
Mills (Rajratna Sheth Zaverchand Laxmichand) Co-operative Credit Society Ltd., Baroda & 
Anr,  1976  (1)  GLR  555  :  1976  (46)  CompCas  1  (Guj);  The  Official  Assignee  of  Madras  v 
Krishnaji  Bhat,  AIR  1933  PC  148 : 60  IA  203 : ILR  56  Mad. 570;  Official  Liquidator  v  N. 
Chandranarayanan, 1973 (43) CompCas 244 (Mad). 
206 AIR 1956 Cal 188 : 1955 (25) CompCas 357 (Cal) 

20.07.2018 

23.07.2018 

Order 

dated 

available 

available 

at 

at 

 

 
Page | 368  

 

 

 

may be excluded from the assets of a company, divisible among its creditors, 
it is not necessary that it should be held formally in trust for a third party. 

Where there is such a trust, the company has obviously no beneficial interest 

in it of the nature divisible among creditors upon insolvency. But there may 

also be a trust in effect. Property held by an insolvent in a fiduciary capacity 
is treated as property held in trust for the purposes of the insolvency laws 

and property held for a specific purpose is treated as clothed with a species 

of trust, subject to the same principles as trust property. In all these cases, 

the property concerned is outside "the divisible assets of the company. The 

party who put the property in the hands of the company can claim it back in 
a winding up as his property, while the creditors cannot claim that it should 

be brought into the distribution. 

 

8. The present case was argued before us as if the decision turned on there 
being or not being a full and complete trust. It was also argued on the footing 

that unless an agency could be made out from the agreement, no trust could 

be  established  and,  conversely,  if  there  was  an  agency,  a  trust  would 

necessarily follow. None of those assumptions was correct. As I have already 

pointed out, in order that a sum of money can be claimed from an insolvent 

company  without  diminution  and  in  priority  over  all  creditors,  it  is  not 

necessary that there should be, with respect to it, a full and complete trust. 

All  that  is  required  is  that  it  should  be  impressed  with  a  character  which 

prevents it from becoming the property of the company and keeps it outside 
the flux of the company's fortune as respects its own funds by virtue of the 

special purpose for which it is placed in the hands of the company. Secondly, 

in order that a deposit made with a company may be said to be held in trust 

or  on  terms  in  the  nature  of  a  trust,  it  is  by  no  means  essential  that  the 

depositor should be an agent. Nor can, it be said that a deposit made by an 

agent must always be a deposit made on trust. A deposit made by a customer 

may  well  partake  of  the  nature of  a  trust and  a  deposit  made  by  a  trade 

agent may well be an advance or advance payment made in the ordinary 

course of business.” 

 
Page | 369  

 

SEBI’s powers are much wider than the remedies available to beneficiaries of the trust 
and is statutorily vested with the power to enforce equitable obligations of refund by 

directing recovery against  all  the assets of  the  defaulter, rather than just  the assets 

acquired through illegal proceeds.207 Recently, SEBI successfully obtained judgment 

from the Federal Court of Australia in the matter of Kadam & Ors. v MiiResorts Group 
1 Pty Ltd & Ors.208, by utilising the law of trusts in respect of monies siphoned off from 

an unregistered collective investment scheme. 

 

II. 

‘BUSINESS TRUSTS’209 AND ‘MONIES HELD IN TRUST’: WHAT IS THE NATURE 

OF  ‘TRUST  VEHICLES’  REGISTERED  UNDER  INDIAN  SECURITIES  LAWS  AND 
THOSE WHO FAIL TO REGISTER? 

 

There are several fund raising vehicles permitted under the SEBI Regulations. One of 

the  more  unique  modes  of  issue  and  raising  of  capital  is  through  ‘Trusts’.  (Mutual 
Funds210,  REITs,  InvITS,  AIFs,  etc.  are  permitted  to  raise  capital  through  a  ‘Trust’ 

vehicle.)  In  general,  the  issue  and  raising  of  capital  relates  to  an  investment  in  an 

artificial person. It is not possible for an individual to issue equity or debentures or 

convertibles. However, between the process of ‘incorporation of an artificial entity’ and 

‘individuals’ lies the concept of ‘business trusts.’ ‘Business trusts’211 originated in USA, 

more  specifically  in  the  Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts,  and  permitted  for  the 

raising of capital through unincorporated business trusts. They are also referred to as 

unincorporated  business  organizations.  Mutual  Funds  and  REITs  in  the  USA  are 

frequently structured as Massachusetts business trusts by convention, though there 
are other states also that by law (including taxation statutes) permit a business trust 

dated 

Judgment 

                                                           
207  Power  of  Recovery  officers  under  securities  laws,  extends  to  all  assets  of  a  defaulter  and  not  just  those 
purchased from the illegal proceeds.  
208 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/sep-
2018/1536728840793.pdf>; 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/sep-
2018/1536728821892.pdf>. 
209 For more clarity on Business Trusts, see Jared W. Speier, ‘Clarifying the Business Trust in Bankruptcy: A 
Proposed Restatement Test’, Pepperdine Law Review, Vol. 43 (2016) 1065.  
210 UTI was the only mutual fund which was conferred with body corporate status of a corporation under section 
3 of the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963. 
211 Most generally, the goal of the business trust is not to preserve the trust property but rather to use the property 
to conduct business and make a profit. 

20.07.2018 

23.07.2018 

Order 

dated 

available 

available 

at 

at 

 

 
Page | 370  

 

to be a “separate unincorporated association.”212 This has enabled the recognition of 
such business trusts, to have a separate personality without being legal persons. The 

Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts213 in Larson v Sylvester214 inter alia held as 

follows,- 

“Speaking  generally,  a  trust  is  not  a  legal  personality.  (emphasis 
supplied) With the exception later to be dealt with, it  cannot be sued. It is 

represented by the trustee. He embodies it. He holds title. He deals with the 

property in which trust rights exist. Contracts with regard to the rights and 

property affected by trusts are the contracts of the trustee. He, in person, is 

liable upon them. He is not acting as representative or agent of another. He is 
acting for himself, but with fiduciary obligations to others. It differs from a 

corporation or a partnership. The former is a legal person. The latter, in the 

law of Massachusetts, is an association of individuals united for transaction 

of business. The former can be sued as a body corporate in its own name. The 
latter must be sued, ordinarily, in the names of the partners. Many purposes 

are served if persons may unite in placing property in the hands of a trustee 

and allowing him to transact business not as an agent or a partner of theirs 

but as owner of the property subject only to equitable obligations. The device 

has been acted upon.  Trust instruments appeared dealing with property in 

equity  owned  by  people,  voluntarily  associated,  whose  rights  were 

represented by transferable certificates, but, at law, owned and managed by a 

trustee or trustees. This court had to pass on their nature and decide whether 

trusts or partnerships had come into being…. 
… 

….Save  for  the  purpose  of  being  sued,  the  trust,  as  distinguished  from  the 

trustee,  is  not  made  a  separate  legal  entity;  and  only  the  peculiar  trusts 

                                                           
212  E.g.  Minnesota  State  Statutes  Business,  Social,  and  Charitable  Organizations  (Ch.  300-323A)  General 
provisions, § 318.02, available at, <https://codes.findlaw.com/mn/business-social-and-charitable-organizations-
ch-300-323a/mn-st-sect-318-02.html>. The subdivision 2., reads as follows,- 

“Any  such  association  heretofore  or  hereafter  organized  shall  be  a  business  trust  and  a  separate 
unincorporated association, not a partnership, joint-stock association, agency, or any other relation except a 
business trust.  A business  trust is also known as a common  law  trust and Massachusetts trust for doing 
business.” 

213 Dealing with Commonwealth of Massachusetts, General Laws, Part I, Title XXII, Chapter 182, Section 6 (Suits 
against 
at 
<https://malegislature.gov/Laws/GeneralLaws/PartI/TitleXXII/Chapter182/Section6>. 
214 185 N.E. 44, (Mass. 1933), available at <https://casetext.com/case/larson-v-sylvester>. 

associations 

or 

trusts.), 

available 

 

 
Page | 371  

 

 

organized  under a written instrument with beneficial interests divided into 
transferable certificates of participation or shares are suable at law. (emphasis 

supplied)” 

In India till the decision of the Securities Appellate Tribunal in PCS Industries Ltd. v 
SEBI215 it was not clear whether a mutual fund organised as a trust (as opposed to the 

UTI  which  is  specifically  recognised  as  a  body  corporate216  by  statute)  could  issue 

securities  due to an earlier  order passed  by the Hon’ble Bombay  High Court  in the 

matter  of  Canbank  Financial  Services  Ltd.  v  V.  B.  Desai  and  Anr.217  The  Tribunal 

noted that the definition of ‘securities’ in clause (h) of Section 2 of Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 is an inclusive one; it reads as follows,- 

““securities”—include  

(i)  shares,  scrips,  stocks,  bonds,  debentures,  debenture  stock  or  other 

marketable securities of a like nature in or of any incorporated company or 
other body corporate; 

(ia) derivative; 

(ib)  units  or  any  other  instrument  issued  by  any  collective  investment 

scheme to the investors in such schemes; 

(ic)  security  receipt  as  defined  in  clause  (zg)  of  section  2  of  the 

Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of 

Security Interest Act, 2002; 

(id) units or any other such instrument issued to the investors under any 

mutual fund scheme; 
Explanation.—For  the  removal  of  doubts,  it  is  hereby  declared  that 

"securities" shall not include any unit linked insurance policy or scrips or 

any such instrument or unit, by whatever name called, which provides a 

combined benefit risk  on the life of the persons and  investment  by such 

persons and issued by an insurer referred to in clause (9) of section 2 of the 

Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938); 

PCS 

                                                           
215 
Ltd. 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/satorders/PCSIndustries.html>. 
216 Section 3 of the Unit Trust of India Act, 1963. 
217 2002 (112) CompCas 142 (Bom), AIR 2002 Bom 247. 

Industries 

v 

SEBI, 

SAT 

 

Appeal 

No. 

31/2001, 

available 

at 

 
Page | 372  

 

(ie) any certificate or instrument (by whatever name called), issued to an 
investor  by  any  issuer  being  a  special  purpose  distinct  entity  which 

possesses any debt or receivable, including mortgage debt, assigned to such 

entity, and acknowledging beneficial interest of such investor in such debt 

or receivable, including mortgage debt, as the case may be; 
(ii) Government securities; 

(iia) such other instruments as may be declared by the Central Government 

to be securities; and 

(iii) rights or interest in securities” 

 
The Securities Appellate Tribunal decision in the PCS Industries has implied that the 

units  issued  by  such  funds  are  ‘securities’  even  prior  to  the  2004  inclusion  of  sub-

clause (id)218 [i.e. units or any other such instrument issued to the investors under 

any mutual fund scheme] since all such instruments ‘which are marketable and which 
have an ease or facility of selling and/or which have a high degree of liquidity and 

or/are  capable  of  being  sold  in  a  market  i.e.  stock  exchange  are  considered  to  be 

included.’ It is not necessary for marketable securities to be issued by a body corporate 

or  company.  In  particular,  the  inclusion  in  1992  of  clause  (iia)  [i.e.  such  other 

instruments as may be declared by the Central government to be securities] has not 

changed the inclusive nature of the definition. This clause was inserted by the SEBI 

Act,  1992  itself  when  mutual  fund  units  were  already  in  existence  and  specifically 

mentioned in the SEBI Act, 1992. The 1995 amendment219 to the SEBI Act, inter alia 

introduced penalty provisions for defaults in units of mutual funds, though till 2004, 
there was no specific mention of mutual fund units in the definition of ‘securities’ in 

the  SCRA.  It  is  merely  an  additional  power  given  to  the  Central  Government  to 

recognise those instruments as securities which could not by implication have been 

included under the said definition in SCRA.220 Further, clause (iia) was already in the 

statute book and noted by the Tribunal in its decision in PCS Industries matter. Thus 

                                                           
218 Inserted by the Securities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2004, Sec. 2, w.e.f. 12-10-2004. It merely removed the 
confusion created by the order in Canbank Financial Services Ltd. v V. B. Desai and Anr., AIR 2002 Bom 247. 
219 Securities Laws (Amendment) Act, 1995 inter alia amending the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 and the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956. 
220 As on date, ‘Onshore Rupee Bonds” issued by multilateral institutions have been declared to be securities. 
These institutions have international personality but are not a ‘company’ or ‘body corporate’ under the Companies 
Act, 1956 or Companies Act, 2013. 

 

 
Page | 373  

 

on  similar  reasoning,  units  issued  by  REITs,  InvITS,  etc.  are  also  securities  even 
though they have not been specifically mentioned in the definition of ‘securities’ in the 

SCRA since they satisfy the test for determining whether an instrument is a security as 

laid  down  by  the  Tribunal  in  the  PCS  Industries  matter,  -  an  instrument  that  is 

marketable and has an ease or facility of selling and/or has a high degree of liquidity 
and or/is capable of being sold in a market is a security.  

 

Thus, in the present context, the Indian securities law jurisprudence though developed 

independently from American securities laws jurisprudence, also provides for creation 

of unincorporated trusts to issue securities, even though, like USA, in India also a trust 
is not suable as a corporation as in the USA. In this context, it may be noted that the 

SEBI  Act,  does  not  provide  for  powers  of  ‘incorporation’,  it  only  provides  for 

‘registration.’ Further, there is no ‘incorporation’ or ‘registration’ ‘under’ the Indian 

Trusts Act, 1882. A ‘trust’ is an obligation annexed to property, it arises simultaneously 
with the entrustment of property. 221 In view of the same, the actual formation of trust 

occurs, when the trust property is entrusted, i.e. funds are raised. Registration under 

the SEBI Act, 1992 does not ‘create’ a trust. Before a trust can arise, the property that 

is to be its subject matter must be linked with the trustee via a binding trust obligation. 

When the property is so linked it is described as being “impressed” with the trust, and 

the trust can then be said to be established or completely constituted. The SEBI Act 

provides only for the registration of certain intermediaries and not their incorporation. 

Generally speaking, a MF/REIT/InVIT/CIS, etc. at the time of registration with SEBI, 

is an empty vehicle, that has no property. It is only after the scheme documents are 
issued and funds are actually raised that a ‘trust’ can be said to have formed in the eyes 

of law. Thus a distinction needs to be made between the formation of the ‘trust’ under 

the  law  of  trust  and  registration  of  that  ‘trusts’  as  a  special  purpose  vehicle  under 

securities laws. 

 

This  can  be  more  easily  understood  in  the  context  of  charitable  public  trusts.  A 

charitable public trust may be express or constructive. In certain states, there is an 

additional  requirement  for  registration  under  State  laws.  e.g.  Section  18  of  the 

Maharashtra Public Trusts Act, 1950. Failure to register the public trusts amounts to 

                                                           
221 Section 3 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882. 

 

 
Page | 374  

 

a breach of such State law and penal consequences will follow, but it does not render 
such  public  trust  totally  void  so  that  the  trustee  can  appropriate  such  funds  to  its 

private use. The trust is created once the property is entrusted or dedicated to the trust. 

 

Thus, failure to register under the SEBI Act is not fatal to recognising a ‘trust’ in favour 
of  investors/beneficiaries,  as  various  judicial  authorities  earlier  cited  indicate.  The 

‘trust’ arises in view of the fund raising activity being carried out and the funds being 

entrusted for a particular purpose. Hence a defaulter cannot and should not be allowed 

to  take  the  benefit  of  his own  default,  since  the  obligation  to  register is  not  on  the 

investors but on the person who carries out the activity of MF/REIT/InVIT/CIS, etc., 
a  failure  to  register  would  not  allow  him  or  his  liquidator  (or  the  resolution 

professional who undertakes the management of the affairs of the corporate debtor) 

to appropriate the funds of investors required to be held in trust towards the dues of 

his  creditors.  The  correct  test  to  determine  whether  a  trust  has  arisen  is  whether 
‘entrustment’ of investors’ funds has taken place or not. 

 

It is possible that the assets may not have been segregated; this however will not affect 

the issue of trust. In SEC v. Better Life Club of Am., Inc.222 the court inter alia held 

that, "[W]hen legitimate assets are co-mingled with illegitimate ones such that the 

assets cannot be separated out, a constructive trust may extend over the entire asset 

pool." Similarly, the global bankruptcy of Lehman Bros tested the insolvency laws and 

protection provided to assets of investors held in trust vis-à-vis other creditors. Ch.7 

of the Client Asset Sourcebook (CASS7) of UK’s Financial Services Authority required 
that monies received  by a broker for clients  are required to be  segregated from the 

broker’s own monies. Lehman Bros. International (Europe) [LBIE] provided services 

for  clients  wishing  to  invest  in  securities  and  operated  an  "alternative  approach", 

which was permitted by CASS7, for the receipt of client funds. This meant that monies 

received  from  clients  were  paid  into  an  account  or  accounts  of  LBIE  and  then 

segregated into client accounts each day according to a reconciliation of client monies 

conducted as at the end of the close of business on the preceding day. In other words, 

to  the  extent  that  the  aggregate  client  entitlement  to  client  monies  exceeded  the 

                                                           
222 995 F. Supp. 167, 181 (D.D.C. 1998), available at <https://casetext.com/case/sec-v-better-life-club-of-america-
inc#p181>.  Also  See  S.E.C.  v  Byers,  637  F.  Supp.  2d  166 
(S.D.N.Y.  2009),  available  at 
<https://casetext.com/case/sec-v-byers-5>. 

 

 
Page | 375  

 

aggregate of the net amount which LBIE held for each client to the credit of that client's 
bank  accounts  and  transaction  accounts,  the  balance  would  be  transferred  to  the 

segregated client bank  accounts held by  LBIE for its clients. If  the balance was the 

other way, the relevant client bank accounts would be debited and the money would 

be transferred to the house accounts of LBIE. On 15 September 2008, Lehman went 
into  administration,  a  ‘primary  pooling  event’  under  CASS  7,  so  the  funds  in  each 

‘client money account’ were to be treated as pooled and then distributed so that each 

client received a sum rateable to their ‘client money entitlement’. The administrators 

asked the High Court for directions under the Insolvency Act 1986 Schedule B1, about 

how  to  apply  CASS  7  to  the  client  money  that  Lehman  held.  There  was  a  lot  of 
unsegregated client money in the firm's house accounts because of the operation of the 

alternative  approach,  and  also  significant  non-compliance  of  Lehman  with  CASS  7 

over  a  long  time.  The  High  Court223,  the  Court  of  Appeals224  and  the  UK  Supreme 

Court225 held that non-segregation did not impact the ‘trust’ as the ‘trust’ arose on the 
receipt of client monies and not on their segregation; and the fiduciary duties imposed 

by CASS 7 were owed by LBIE in respect of all client money, not just balances standing 

to the credit in the client accounts. The decision that fiduciary duties were owed by a 

firm  in  respect  of  all  client  money  was  relevant  to  construe  CASS  7.  If  there  was  a 

choice of interpretations, then the one chosen should be the highest level of protection.  

 

A similar interpretation in relation to investments and assets of securities investors in 

India  has  to  be  adopted  in  order  for  India’s  securities  markets  to  be  globally 

competitive,  thus  the  protections  afforded  by  the  law  of  trust  and  the  higher 
protections afforded by securities laws must be read together to protect the interest of 

investors. 

 

III.  RECOVERY  OF  MONIES  DUE  TO  INVESTORS  IN  SECURITIES  IN  CASE  OF 

INSOLVENCY OF TRUSTS. 

 

                                                           
223  In  the  matter  of  Lehman  Bros  International  (Europe),  [2009]  EWHC  3228  (Ch),  available  at 
<https://www.bailii.org/ew/cases/EWHC/Ch/2009/3228.html>. 
224  In  the  matter  of  Lehman  Bros  International  (Europe),  [2010]  EWCA  Civ.  917  (Ch),  available  at 
<https://www.bailii.org/ew/cases/EWCA/Civ/2010/917.html>. 
225 
<https://www.bailii.org/uk/cases/UKSC/2012/6.html>. 

[2012]  UKSC  6,  available  at 

International 

In 

the  matter  of  Lehman  Bros 

(Europe), 

 

 
Page | 376  

 

The following interplay of securities laws, law of trust and insolvency law arises when 
considering recovery under the securities laws,- 

a.  In case of  disgorgement due to be ordered or executed, the Indian securities 

laws confer wider power on SEBI as compared to that the American securities 

laws confer on USA-SEC. The power of disgorgement, as it developed in USA, 
does not confer priority to the USA-SEC (and other regulators who may direct 

disgorgement) vis-à-vis other creditors.226 Disgorgement is not sought because 

SEBI/USA-SEC has the superior right and title to the illegal proceeds, rather it 

is sought to ensure that the defaulter does not benefit from his illegal activities 

and  is  not  required  to  prove  tracing.  On  consequential  reasoning,  when  the 
defaulter goes insolvent, his creditors also cannot have a better title. Creditors 

cannot seek to enrich themselves from the illegal proceeds of illegal activities.227 

                                                           
226  See  Federal  Trade  Commission  v.  Bronson  Partners,  LLC,  654  F.3d  359  (2d  Cir.  2011),  available  at  < 
https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/223605/ftc-v-bronson-partners-llc/>: 

“Nor, having obtained a disgorgement award, are public entities required to make any particular effort 
to compensate the victims that they can identify. See Fischbach, 133 F.3d at 176; see also SEC v. Wang, 
944  F.2d  80,  88  (2d  Cir.1991)  (affirming  a  distribution  plan  that  engaged  in  "line-drawing[,]  which 
inevitably leaves out some potential claimants"). While agencies may, as a matter of grace, attempt to 
return  as  much  of  the  disgorgement  proceeds  as  possible,  the  remedy  is  not,  strictly  speaking, 
restitutionary at all, in that the award runs in favor of the Treasury, not of the victims. 
 
Finally, and most importantly for this case, unlike an equitable lien or a constructive trust, disgorgement 
does  not  require  the  district  court  to  apply  equitable  tracing  rules  to  identify  specific  funds  in  the 
defendant's possession that are subject to return. Tracing is necessary where a private plaintiff seeks to 
impose a constructive trust, because liability is premised on the fiction that the victim at all times retained 
title to the property in question, which the defendant merely holds in trust for him. (emphasis supplied) 
Consequently, a plaintiff who has obtained a constructive trust is generally entitled to priority over other 
creditors in satisfying his judgment from the proceeds of the traceable funds or property. But when a 
public entity seeks disgorgement it does not claim any entitlement to particular property; it seeks only to 
"deter violations of the laws by depriving violators of their ill-gotten gains." Fischbach, 133 F.3d at 175. 
Nor is an agency that has won a disgorgement order entitled to priority over the other creditors of the 
defendant. In this case, the FTC asks only to have a judgment for the amount of Bronson's ill-gotten 
gains, which, if Bronson is insolvent, will simply permit the Commission to share with other creditors 
on an equal basis. (emphasis supplied) 
 
In light of this distinction, it is unsurprising that Bronson can point to no case in which a public agency 
seeking  to  obtain  equitable  monetary  relief  has  been  required  to  satisfy  the  tracing  rules.[9]  To  the 
contrary, the Federal Reporter is replete with instances in which judges of this Court deeply familiar with 
equity practice have permitted the SEC to obtain disgorgement without any mention of tracing. (emphasis 
supplied)  See,  e.g.,  Commonwealth  Chem.,  574  F.2d  at  95-96  (Friendly,  J.).  Indeed,  it  is  by  now  so 
uncontroversial that tracing is not required in disgorgement cases that we recently rejected an argument 
to the contrary via summary order. SEC v. Rosenthal, Nos. 10-1204-cv, 10-1253-cv, 426 Fed.Appx. 1, 
1-3, 2011 WL 2271743, at *1 (2d Cir. June 9, 2011) (Summary Order); see also SEC v. Banner Fund 
Int'l, 211 F.3d 602, 617 (D.C.Cir.2000) (reasoning that "disgorgement is an equitable obligation to return 
a sum equal to the amount wrongfully obtained, rather than a requirement to replevy a specific asset").” 
227 Standard Chartered Bank & Ors v Deputy Director, Directorate of Enforcement, Mumbai, PMLA Appellate 
Tribunal, 
at 
available 
<http://atfp.gov.in/writereaddata/upload/Judgement/Judgement_FMSMWJERQT_78805.PDF>. 

02.08.2018 

order 

dated 

 

 
Page | 377  

 

It is important to note that proceeds resulting from fund raising activities in 
violation  of  securities  laws  are  considered  as  ‘proceeds  of  crime’  under  the 

Prevention of  Money-Laundering Act,  2002 (“PMLA”).228 Recently the Delhi 

High Court in the matter of Deputy Director, Directorate of Enforcement v Axis 

Bank & Ors.229 vide order dated 02.04.2019 has on similar lines inter alia held 
as follows,- 

“141.  This  court  finds  it  difficult  to  accept  the  proposition  that  the 

jurisdiction conferred on the State by PMLA to confiscate the "proceeds 

of crime" concerns a property the value whereof is "debt" due or payable 

to  the  Government  (Central  or  State)  or  local  authority.  The 
Government,  when  it  exercises  its  power  under  PMLA  to  seek 

attachment leading to confiscation of proceeds of crime, does not stand 

as a creditor, the person alleged to be complicit in the offence of money-

laundering  similarly  not  acquiring  the  status  of  a  debtor.  (emphasis 
supplied)  The  State  is  not  claiming  the  prerogative  to  deprive  such 

offender of ill-gotten assets so as to be perceived to be sharing the loot, 

not the least so as to levy tax thereupon such as to give it a colour of 

legitimacy or lawful earning, the idea being to take away what has been 

illegitimately secured by proscribed criminal activity. 

... 

146.  A  Resolution  Professional  appointed  under  the  Insolvency  Code 

does  not  have  any  personal  stake.  He  only  represents  the  interest  of 

creditors,  their  committee  having  appointed  and  tasked  him  with 
certain responsibility under the said law. The moratorium enforced in 

terms of Section 14 of Insolvency Code cannot come in the way of the 

statutory authority conferred by PMLA on the enforcement officers for 

depriving  a  person  (may  be  also  a  debtor)  of  the  proceeds  of  crime. 

(emphasis supplied) A view to the contrary, if taken, would defeat the 

objective  of  PMLA  by  opening  an  escape  route.  After  all,  a  person 

indulging  in  money-laundering  cannot  be  permitted  to  avail  of  the 

                                                           
228 See Paragraph 8, of Part B of the Schedule referencing to Section 12A read with Section 24 of the SEBI Act. 
Inserted vide Prevention of Money-Laundering (Amendment) Act, 2009. 
229 Available at <https://ibbi.gov.in/webadmin/pdf/whatsnew/2019/Apr/RKG02042019CRLA1432018_2019-04-
03%2014:45:26.pdf>. 

 

 
Page | 378  

 

proceeds  of  crime  to  get  a discharge  for  his  civil  liability  towards  his 
creditors for the simple reason such assets are not lawfully his to claim. 

(emphasis supplied)” 

 

b.  Forfeiture  is  of  two  types,  -  civil  forfeiture  and  criminal  forfeiture. 
Disgorgement  is  akin  to  civil  forfeiture.230  Civil  forfeiture  is  very  commonly 

used  in  USA  and  UK  and  is  non-conviction  based.  It  requires  only  probable 

cause to indicate that the property has been acquired pursuant to violation of 

public laws rather than a conviction of any person accused of such laws.231 Since 

it  is  not  based  on  actual  determination  of  violation  of  law,  but  only  on  the 

                                                           
230  See  Cruz  v  Ghani.  No.  05-17-00566-CV 
<https://casetext.com/case/erwin-cruz-the-erwin-a-cruz-family-ltd-v-ghani-2>, inter alia holding that,-  

(Tex.  App.  Aug.  20,  2018), 

available 

at 

“Courts  may  fashion  equitable  remedies  such  as  disgorgement  and  forfeiture  to  remedy  a  breach  of  a 
fiduciary duty. Cooper v. Campbell, No. 05-15-00340-CV, 2016 WL 4487924, at *10 (Tex. App.—Dallas 
Aug. 24, 2016, no pet.) (mem. op.) (citing ERI Consulting Eng'r, Inc. v. Swinnea, 318 S.W.3d 867, 874, 
873-75 (Tex. 2010); Burrow v. Arce, 997 S.W.2d 229 (Tex. 1999); Dernick Resources, Inc. v. Wilstein, 
471 S.W.3d 468, 482 (Tex. App.—Houston [1st Dist.] 2015, pet. denied)). Disgorgement is an equitable 
forfeiture of benefits wrongfully obtained. Id. (citing In re Longview Energy Co., 464 S.W.3d 353, 361 
(Tex. 2015) (orig. proceeding); Swinnea v. ERI Consulting Eng'r, Inc., 481 S.W.3d 747, 752 (Tex. App.—
Tyler  2016,  no  pet.)).  A  party  may  be  required  to  forfeit  benefits  when  a  person  rendering  services  to 
another in a relationship of trust breaches that trust. See In re Longview Energy Co., 464 S.W.3d 361. 
 
"We have said that such equitable forfeiture 'is not mainly compensatory . . . nor is it mainly punitive' and 
'cannot . . . be measured by . . . actual damages.'" Id. (quoting Burrow, 997 S.W.2d at 240). Disgorgement 
is compensatory in the same sense attorney  fees, interest, and costs are, but it is not damages. Id. As a 
result, equitable forfeiture  is  distinguishable from an  award  of  actual damages incurred as a result  of  a 
breach of fiduciary duty.”” 

see, 

SEC 

v 

823 

F.3d 

1357 

(2016), 

Graham, 

Also 
at 
<https://www.leagle.com/decision/infco20160526098>, holding that SEC disgorgement is a forfeiture. In Kokesh 
V SEC, 137 S. Ct. 1635 (2017), available at <https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/16pdf/16-529_i426.pdf> 
applied the same standards as applicable to forfeiture [Austin v. United States, 509 U. S. 602, 610 (1993), available 
at <https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/509/602/>] to hold that disgorgement operated as a penalty for the 
purposes 
at 
<https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/518/267/>,  inter  alia  holding  that,  “Forfeitures  serve  a  variety  of 
purposes,  but  are  designed  primarily  to  confiscate  property  used  in  violation  of  the  law,  and  to  require 
disgorgement of the fruits of illegal conduct.”  
Also see, In re Telsey, 144 B.R. 563, 565 (Bankr. S.D. Fla. 1992), available at <https://casetext.com/case/in-re-
telsey>, inter alia holding that,- 

v  Ursery, 

518  U.S. 

See  US 

limitation. 

available 

available 

(1996), 

267 

of 

“The district court's disgorgement order in this case serves the purpose of deterrence. See, e.g., S.E.C. v. 
First City Financial Corp., 890 F.2d 1215, 1230 (D.C. Cir. 1989); Rowe v.  Maremont Corp., 850 F.2d 
1226, 1241 (7th Cir. 1988); S.E.C. v. Blatt, 583 F.2d 1325, 1335 (5th Cir. 1978); S.E.C. v. Blavin, 760 F.2d 
706, 713 (6th Cir. 1985); S.E.C. v. Manor Nursing Centers, 458 F.2d 1082, 1104 (2nd Cir. 1972). This 
Court finds the deterrence purpose of the disgorgement order sufficiently penal to characterize the resulting 
debt as a "fine, penalty, or forfeiture" within the meaning of § 523(a)(7).” 
See 

231 
at 
<https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/509/602/> for analysis of US and UK law relating to criminal and 
civil forfeiture. 

v.  United 

509  U. 

available 

(1993), 

States, 

Austin 

602, 

610 

S. 

 

 
Page | 379  

 

determination of the lawful right of a person to enjoy a property, it can even be 
continued against heirs of an accused.232  

An intriguing aspect of Indian law  is the regular use of ‘confiscation’ or civil 

forfeiture provisions233 under forest and wildlife laws.234 [Indian courts have 

adopted the nomenclature of ‘confiscation’ for civil forfeiture and ‘forfeiture’ as 
exclusively criminal.] The nature of those proceedings can serve as an apercu 

in respect of the application of forfeiture provisions in India. Under those laws, 

not  only  the  illegally  obtained  forest  produce  can  be  confiscated  by  civil 

adjudication proceedings but also any other property that might be used for the 

purpose of carrying out the violation of those laws if the person had knowledge 
of  such  violation  or  had  failed  to  take  diligent  care  to  avoid  such  use.  The 

confiscatory  proceedings  are  not  dependent  on  actual  prosecution235  or 

conviction  of  the  persons  from  whom  the  property  is  confiscated.236  The 

                                                           
232 See Section 28B of the SEBI Act, 1992. Also See Official Liquidator vs Parthasarathi Sinha & Ors., AIR 
1983 SC 188 (The true doctrine is that whenever you find that the deceased person has by his wrong diverted 
either property or the proceeds of the property belonging to someone else into his own estate, you can then have 
recourse to that estate through his legal representative when he is dead, to recover it. The legal representative, of 
course, would not be liable for any sum beyond the value of the estate of the deceased in his hands.); Official 
Liquidator, Supreme bank Ltd v P A Tendolkar (Dead) by Lrs and Ors., AIR 1973 SC 1104, in respect of matters 
relating to breach of trust and fiduciary duty by a director. Further See, SEC v Wyly, 860 F. Supp. 2d 275 (S.D.N.Y. 
2012), available at <https://casetext.com/case/sec-exch-commn-v-wyly> for disgorgement to continue against the 
estate of the deceased in line with civil forfeiture analogy relied upon by the SEC. 
233 Section 52 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 which inter alia provides for confiscation ‘when there is reason to 
believe that a forest-offence has been committed in respect of any forest-produce, such produce, together with all 
tools, boats, carts or cattle used in committing any such offence, may be seized’. 
234 For other laws see Section 6A (Confiscation of essential commodity) of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. 
235 Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra Limited v Prakash Mallesh Cheraku & Anr., Bom. HC-Nag., 
order dated 09.01.2018, available at <https://indiankanoon.org/doc/6853180/>, inter alia holding that,- 

“It  is  also  well  settled  law  that  the  confiscation  proceedings  are  separate  and  independent  from  the 
prosecution that may be instituted against the offender and that even if no prosecution has been initiated 
against  the  owner  of  the  seized  vehicle,  the  seized  vehicle  would  be  liable  to  confiscation  if  the  two 
conditions just mentioned are fulfilled. It is equally well settled that if the owner is not to lose the vehicle 
by way of confiscation to the State, it would be essential for him to prove that the seized vehicle was used 
without his knowledge for committing the forest offence and that the standard of proof, required to be 
tendered by the owner, will not be the same as is required for proving a criminal offence. The law is that 
in order to discharge such a burden, which is placed upon the shoulder of the owner of the seized vehicle, 
the owner has to bring on record a reasonable probability of his not possessing the requisite knowledge.” 
236 Ghatge Patil Transport Ltd. vs. The State of Maharashtra, 2008(2) Mh.L.J.(Cri.)69 (Bom.) inter alia holding 
that,- 

“17. As regards the contention that the said provisions of law empower confiscation and forfeiture even 
before the chargesheet is filed and offence is proved, it is to be noted that the confiscation and forfeiture 
has nothing to do with the criminal proceedings for the offences committed under the said Act. The power 
of confiscation and forfeiture assured under the said provisions of law is in the adjudication proceedings 
which are totally different from the criminal proceedings and one is not subject to or control by another. In 
fact, the law on this point is well settled by the decision of the Apex Court in S.P. Sales Agencies case 
(supra) [State of M.P. v. S.P. Sales Agencies and Ors]. 
 

 

 
Page | 380  

 

Hon’ble Supreme Court in State of West Bengal v Sujit Kumar Rana237 inter 
alia  held  that  where  a  person  does  not  have  the  right  to  enjoy  property,  its 

confiscation  was  the  natural  corollary  and  distinguished  confiscation  in  civil 

proceedings and forfeiture in criminal proceedings consequent to conviction,- 

“In Indian Handicrafts Emporium and Ors. v. Union of India and Ors., 
[2003] 7 SCC 589, this Court was dealing with a situation where initially 

'ivory' was legally imported, but the trade or possession thereof became 

subsequently barred by amendment made in the Wild Life (Protection) 

Act except for bona fide personal use. By reason of the provisions of the 

said Act, however, such imported ivory did not vest in the Government. 
This  Court  despite  aforementioned  situation  applying  the  rule  of 

purposive construction so as to give effect to the intent and purport of 

the statute held: 

 
"A trader in terms of a statute is prohibited from carrying on trade. He 

also  cannot  remain  in  control  over  the  animal  article.  The  logical 

consequence  wherefor  would  be  that  he  must  be  deprived  of  the 

possession  thereof.  The  possession  of  the  animal  article  including 

imported  ivory  must,  therefore,  be  handed  over  to  the  competent 

                                                           

18. The Apex Court in S.P. Sales Agencies case (supra), while dealing with the question as to whether 
confiscation proceeding under the said Act can be initiated only after launching criminal prosecution or it 
is open to the forest authorities upon seizure of forest produce to initiate both or either, after taking note of 
various provisions of the said Act, held that "The power of confiscation, exercisable under Section 52 of 
the Act cannot be said to be in any manner dependant upon launching of criminal prosecution as it has 
nowhere  been  provided  therein  that  the  forest  produce  seized  can  be  confiscated  only  after  criminal 
prosecution is launched, but the condition precedent for initiating a confiscation proceeding is commission 
of  forest  offence."  Taking  note  of  earlier  decisions  in  the  case  of  State  of  W.B.  v.  Gopal  Sarkar,  and 
Divisional Forest Officer and Anr. v. G.V. Sudhakar Rao and Ors. , the Apex Court reiterated its earlier 
view  that  the  power  of  confiscation  is  independent  of  any  criminal  prosecution  for  the  forest  offence 
committed. Indeed, in Sudhakar Raos case (supra), it was clearly ruled that: 
 

The conferral of power of confiscation of seized timber or forest produce and the implements etc. 
on the Authorized Officer under Sub-section (2-A) of Section 44 of the Act [Andhra Pradesh Forest 
Act, 1967] on his being satisfied that a forest offence had been committed in respect thereof, is not 
dependent  upon  whether  a  criminal  prosecution  for  commission  of  a  forest  offence  has  been 
launched against the offender or not. It is a separate and distinct proceeding from that of a trial before 
the Court for commission of an offence. Under Sub-section (2-A) of Section 44 of the Act, where a 
Forest Officer makes a report of seizure of any timber or forest produce and produces the seized 
timber before the authorized officer along with a report under Section 44(2) the authorized officer 
can direct confiscation to Government of such timber or forest produce and the implements etc. if 
he is satisfied that a forest offence has been committed, irrespective of the fact whether the accused 
is facing a trial” 

237 (2004) 4 SCC 129. 

 

 
Page | 381  

 

 

authority. In a case of this nature where a statute has been enacted in 
public interest, restriction in the matter of possession of the property 

must be held to be implicit. If Section 49(7) is not so construed, it cannot 

be given effect to. 

 

We, therefore, are of the opinion that the appellants have no right  to 

possess  the  articles  in  question.  Keeping  in  view  of  the  fact  that  the 

provisions of the statute have been held to be intra vires the question of 

compensating the appellants would not arise as vesting of possession 

thereof in the State must be inferred by necessary implication." 
... 

An  order  of  confiscation  of  forest-produce  in  a  proceeding  under 

Section  59-A  of  the  Act  would  not  amount  either  to  penalty  or 

punishment. Such an order, however, can be passed only in the event a 
valid  seizure  is  made  and  the  authorized  officer  satisfies  himself  as 

regard ownership of the forest- produce in the State as also commission 

of a forest-offence. ... 

… 

...  An  order  of  confiscation  in  respect  of  a  property  must  be 

distinguished from an order of forfeiture thereof. Although the effect of 

both confiscation and forfeiture of a property may be the same, namely 

that the property would vest in the State but the nature of such order 

having regard to the statutory scheme must be held to be different. A 
proceeding for confiscation can be initiated irrespective of the fact that 

as to whether prosecution for commission of a forest offence has been 

lodged or not. A confiscation proceeding, therefore, is independent of a 

criminal proceeding. We may also notice that the State has been made 

liable to refund the amount which has been deposited pursuant to an 

auction held in respect of the confiscated property only in the event the 

order of confiscation is set aside or annulled under Section 59-A(4)(b) 

thereof. No provision has been made in the statute unlike Section 6-C 

of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 to the effect that the confiscated 

property  or  the  amount  deposited  in  the  treasury  pursuant  to  the 

 
Page | 382  

 

auction of the confiscated goods would be returned to the owner thereof 
in the event, the criminal trial ends in an acquittal. 

This Court, in this case, is not concerned with the effect of acquittal vis-

a-vis a confiscation proceeding. There may be a case where a judgment 

of acquittal has been rendered not on merit of the matter but by way of 
giving  benefit  of  doubt  or  for  certain  reasons  unrelated  to  the 

adjudication on merits as for example dropping of the proceeding as the 

prosecution witnesses did not turn up despite service of summons. 

… 

A confiscation envisages a civil liability whereas an order of forfeiture 
of  the  forest-produce  must  be  preceded  by  a  judgment  of  conviction. 

Although  indisputably  having  regard to  the  phraseology  used  in  sub-

section (2) of Section 59-A, there cannot be any doubt whatsoever that 

commission  of  a  forest  offence  is  one  of  the  requisite  ingredients  for 
passing  an  order  of  confiscation;  but  the  question  as  to  whether  the 

order  of  acquittal  has  been  passed  on  that  ground  and  what  weight 

should be attached thereto is a matter which, in our opinion, should not 

be gone into at this stage.” 

 

The Hon’ble Supreme Court in Biswanath Bhattacharya v UoI & Ors.238 has 

recognized  non-conviction  based  civil  forfeiture  in  India  based  on  non-

conviction on the lines of US,  UK and other countries. It  inter  alia noted  as 

follows,- 

“42. Whether there is a right to hold property which is the product of 

crime is a question examined in many jurisdictions. To understand the 

substance of such examination, we can profitably extract from an article 

published  in  the  Journal  of  Financial  Crime,  2004  by  Anthony 

Kennedy.[11]  

“..It has been suggested that a logical interpretation of Art. 1 of the 

First Protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights is: 

‘Everyone  is  entitled  to  own  whatever  property  they  have 

(lawfully) acquired …..’ 

                                                           
238 [2014] 1 SCr 885. Also see,  

 

 
Page | 383  

 

 

hence  implying  that  they  do  not  have  a  right  under  Art.  1  to  own 
property which has been unlawfully acquired. This point was argued 

in  the  Irish High  Court  in  Gilligan  v  The  Criminal  Assets  Bureau, 

namely that where a defendant is in possession or control over assets 

which directly or indirectly constitute the proceeds of crime, he has 
no property rights in those assets and no valid title to them, whether 

protected by the Irish Constitution or by any other law. A similar view 

seems to have been expressed earlier in a dissenting opinion in Welch 

v  United  Kingdom:  ‘in  my  opinion,  the  confiscation  of  property 

acquired  by  crime,  even  without  express  prior  legislation  is  not 
contrary to Article 7 of the Convention, nor to Article 1 of the First 

Protocol.’ This principle has also been explored in US jurisprudence. 

In  United  States  v.  Vanhorn  a  defendant  convicted  of  fraud  and 

money  laundering  was  not  entitled  to  the  return  of  the  seized 
proceeds since they amounted to contraband which he had no right 

to possess. In United States v Dusenbery the court held that, because 

the respondent conceded that he used drug proceeds to purchase a 

car and other personal property, he had no ownership interest in the 

property and thus could not seek a remedy against the government’s 

decision to destroy the property without recourse to formal forfeiture 

proceedings. (emphasis supplied) The UK government has impliedly 

adopted this perspective, stating that: 

‘…. It is important to bear in mind the purpose of civil recovery, 
namely to establish as a matter of civil law that there is no right to 

enjoy  property  that  derives  from  unlawful  conduct.”  (emphasis 

supplied) 

43.  Non-conviction  based  asset  forfeiture  model  also  known  as  Civil 

Forfeiture  Legislation  gained  currency  in  various  countries:  United 

States of America, Italy, Ireland, South Africa, UK, Australia and certain 

provinces of Canada. 

 

44. Anthony Kennedy conceptualised the civil forfeiture regime in the 

following words:- 

 
Page | 384  

 

“Civil  forfeiture  represents  a  move  from  a  crime  and  punishment 
model  of  justice  to  a  preventive  model  of  justice.  It  seeks  to  take 

illegally obtained property out of the possession of organised crime 

figures so as to prevent them, first, from using it as working capital 

for future crimes and, secondly, from flaunting it in such a way  as 
they  become  role  models  for  others  to  follow  into  a  lifestyle  of 

acquisitive crime. Civil recovery is therefore not aimed at punishing 

behaviour but at removing the ‘trophies’ of past criminal behaviour 

and the means to commit future criminal behaviour. While it would 

clearly be more desirable if successful criminal proceedings could be 
instituted, the operative theory is that ‘half a loaf is better than no 

bread’.” 

 

45. For all the above-mentioned reasons, we are of the opinion that the 
Act is not violative of Article 20 of the Constitution….” 

 

The aforesaid judgment follows it earlier decision in Attorney General of India 

v Amratlal Prajivandas239 relying on the common law concept of forfeiture to 

uphold  forfeiture  contained  in  various  other  Indian  statutes.  The  Hon’ble 

Supreme  Court  of  India  in  Delhi  Development  Authority  v.  Skipper 

Construction Co. Ltd.240, has also observed that there is need to implement laws 

akin to Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) 

Act, 1976 for effective deterrence of corporate crimes and applied the principle 
of  forfeiture  even  in  case  which  did  not  involve  a  fiduciary  relationship  or  a 

holder  of  public  office.  It  did  so  because  a  corporate  structure  was  used  to 

acquire  properties  by  defrauding  the  people  and  it  was  necessary  that  the 

persons defrauded should be restored to the position in which they would have 

                                                           
239  AIR  1994  SC  2179.  According  to  Section  3(c)  of  the  Smugglers  and  Foreign  Exchange  Manipulators 
(Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976, 'illegally acquired property' includes any property acquired by a person wholly 
or partly out of or by means of any income, earnings or assets derived or obtained from any activity prohibited by 
any law for the time being in force relating to any matter in respect of which Parliament has power to make laws; 
or assets the source of which cannot be proved and which cannot be shown to be attributable to any act or thing 
done in respect of any matter in relation to which Parliament has no power to make laws. Under this Act the 
burden  to  prove  that  any  property  forfeited  is  not  illegally  acquired  property  is  on  the  person  affected.  The 
provisions of this Act have reflections of non-conviction based forfeiture as here forfeiture is not linked to the 
conviction for offence.  
240 AIR 1996 SC 2005. 

 

 
Page | 385  

 

been but for the said fraud. Thus, the necessary and correct approach to civil 
disgorgement requires that the Board discharge its duty to show probable cause 

of  violation  of  securities  laws  as  a  consequence  of  which  the  proceeds  to  be 

disgorged may have arisen; the burden is on the person  in possession  of  the 

property to indicate that the property has been obtained from otherwise lawful 
activities. Further, as seen from the various judicial precedents, disgorgement 

or forfeiture is applicable to a wide variety of violations and not just fraud. 

 

c.  The  securities  laws  were  amended  in  2014  to  provide  for  a  specific  right  of 

priority to the Board’s recovery actions in respect of disgorgement actions over 
the claim of any other person. This needs to be seen in the light of the intention 

of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 to expressly exclude ‘assets held 

in trust’ from the Liquidation Estate under Section 36 of the Code.  

 

d.  Recently, the Chandigarh bench of the NCLT vide order dated 26.04.2019 in 

the matter of Weather Makers Pvt. Ltd. v Parabolic Drugs  Ltd.241, has inter 

alia  held  that  where  application  was  filed  for  recovery  of  assets  that  were 

contractually required to be held in trust, the moratorium under the IBC is not 

applicable and recovery could be done. On closer analysis of the judgment it can 

be discerned that the nature of trust in the present case was in fact a quistclose 

trust. i.e. where goods or monies were given for a particular purpose only. In 

the event that the recipient uses the money for any other purpose, it is a breach 

of trust and the money or its asset equivalent can be returned. 
 
 

e.  Further, the Standing Committee on Finance (2018-19) in its 70th Report on 

the  Banning  of  Unregulated  Deposit  Schemes  Bills,  2018,242  inter  alia 

recommended removing the priority given to the IBC and the SARFAESI Act 

while undertaking refund to investors. This is in line with the earlier draft Bill 

that had been formulated by the Inter-Ministerial Group. The Committee noted 

that  repaying  depositors’  money  is  the  most  critical  part  of  the  process  of 

                                                           
241 
pdf/FINAL%20Orders%20on%20CA%20206%20of%2019%20in%20CP%20102%20of%2018%20-
60%285%29-Weather%20Makers.pdf>. 
242 Available at <http://164.100.47.193/lsscommittee/Finance/16_Finance_70.pdf>. 

Available 

at 

<https://nclt.gov.in/sites/default/files/Interim-order-

 

 
Page | 386  

 

restitution of depositors. Though the recommendation of the Committee was 
not accepted, the IBC itself excludes ‘assets held in trust’ from the Liquidation 

Estate.  Thus,  though  the  Standing  Committee’s  recommendation  was  not 

accepted, in so far as securities investors are concerned, they continue to be in 

a privileged position since the issue of securities utilizes a quistclose trust. 
 

f.  In this context, the nature of public and private trusts in securities laws need to 

be noted. Though the principles contained in the Indian Trusts Act, 1882 are 

also recognized by courts in respect of public trusts, the omission of Section 94 
[Constructive trusts in cases not expressly provided for.] in the Indian Trusts 

Act,  1882  to  curb  the  practice  of  ‘benami’  by  the  Benami  Transactions 

(Prohibition) Act, 1988 has no effect on public constructive trusts. The concept 

of  constructive  trusts (trusts  not  expressly  provided for  but  implied  by  law), 

continue to be applicable in securities laws. Unlike the private trusts (regulated 

by  the  Indian  Trusts  Act,  1882)  which  concern  themselves  with  identifiable 

beneficiaries, public trusts are for the benefit of members of an uncertain and 

fluctuating body. Several public trust laws of India recognize that a public trust 

may be constructive.243  
 

g.  The distinction between a public trust and a private trust, broadly speaking, is 

that in a public trust the beneficiaries of the trust are the people in general or 

some section of the people while in the case of a private trust, the beneficiaries 

are  an  ascertained  body  of  persons.244  Business  trusts  evolved  from  private 

trusts but are distinct from them and offer financial services to the public.245 

E.g. the SEBI (Mutual  Funds)  Regulations, 1996 define a ‘mutual fund’ as  ‘a 

fund established in the form of a trust to raise monies through the sale of units 

to the public or a section of the public under one or more schemes for investing 

                                                           
243 See, clause (13) of Section 2 of the Bombay Public Trust Act, 1950 which inter alia defines a Public Trust as 
“‘Public Trust' means an express or constructive trust for either a public, religious or charitable purpose or both 
and includes a temple, a math, a wakf, church, synagogue, agiary or other place of public religious worship, a 
dharmada or any other religious or charitable endowment and a society formed either for a religious or charitable 
purpose or for both and registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860.” 
244 Srinivas Ramanuja Das v. Surjanarayan Das, AIR 1967 SC 256. 
245  For  more  detailed  discussion,  see  Tamar  Frankel,  The  Delaware  Business  Trust  Act  Failure  as  the  New 
Corporate 
at 
<https://heinonline.org/HOL/LandingPage?handle=hein.journals/cdozo23&div=20&id=&page=>; 
<http://people.bu.edu/tfrankel/Delaware%20bizs%20trust%2019.doc>.  

(2001-2002), 

available 

Law, 

325 

23 

Cardozo 

L. 

Rev. 

 

 
Page | 387  

 

in  securities  including  money  market  instruments  or  gold  or  gold  related 
instruments or real estate assets.’ 

 
 

h.  There  are  certain  private  trusts  in  securities  laws,  such  as  Portfolio 
Management services, but they are not affected by the omission of Section 94 

of the Indian Trust Act, 1882. Such trust is expressly mandated under the SEBI 

regulations  and  also  covered  under  Section  88  [Advantage  gained  by 

fiduciary.]  of  the  Indian  Trusts  Act,  1882.  In  particular  SEBI  (Portfolio 
Managers) Regulations, 1993 mandate the agreement to be in writing and inter 

alia provide that, ‘the Portfolio Manager shall act in a fiduciary capacity and 

as a trustee and agent of the clients' account.’246 

 

i.  Similarly, a constructive trust may also arise in the case of violation of any law. 

E.g. The Hon’ble Supreme  Court of  India in the case of  Attorney General of 

India  v  Amratlal  Prajivandas247  while  dealing  with  the  matter  under 

                                                           
246 See, Regulation 14 and Schedule IV of the SEBI (Portfolio Managers) Regulation, 1993. 
247 AIR 1994 SC 2179: 

“After all, all these illegally acquired properties are earned and acquired in ways illegal and corrupt at 
the cost of the people and the State. The State is deprived of its legitimate revenue to that extent. These 
properties must justly go back where they belong to the State. What we are saying is nothing new or 
heretical. (emphasis supplied) Witness the facts and ratio of a recent decision of the Privy Council in 
Attomey General for Hong Kong v. Reid. The respondent, Reid, was a Crown-prosecutor in Hong Kong. 
He  took  bribes  as  an  inducement  to  suppress  certain  criminal  prosecutions  and  with  those  monies, 
acquired properties in New Zealand, two of which were held in the name of himself and his wife and 
the third in the name of his solicitor. He was found guilty of the offence of bribe-taking and sentenced 
by a criminal court. The Administration of Hong Kong claimed that the said properties in New Zealand 
were held by the owners thereof as constructive trustees for the Crown and must be made over to the 
Crown.  The  Privy  Council  upheld  this  claim  overruling  the  New  Zealand  Court  of  Appeals.  Lord 
Templeman,  delivering  the  opinion  of  the  Judicial  Committee,  based  his  conclusion  on  the  simple 
ground  that  any  benefit  obtained  by  a  fiduciary  through  a  breach  of  duty  belongs  in  equity  to  the 
beneficiary. It is held that a gift accepted by a person in 
a  fiduciary  position  as  an  incentive  for 
his breach of duty 
constituted a bribe and, although in law it belonged to the fiduciary, in equity 
he not only became a debtor for the amount of the bribe to the person to whom the duty was owed but 
he also held the bribe and any property acquired therewith on constructive trust for that person. It is 
held further that if the value of the property representing the bribe depreciated the fiduciary had to pay 
to the injured person the difference between that value and the initial amount of the bribe, and if the 
property increased in value the fiduciary was not entitled to retain the excess since equity would not 
allow him to make any profit from his breach of duty. Accordingly, it is held that to the extent that they 
represented bribes received by the first respondent, the New Zealand properties were held in trust for 
the Crown, and the Crown had an equitable interest therein. The learned Law Lord observed further that 
if the theory of constructive trust is not applied and properties interdicted when 13 (1993) 3 WLR 1 
143: (1994) 1 All ER 1 available, the properties "can be sold and the proceeds whisked away (emphasis 
supplied) to, some Shangri La which hides bribes and other corrupt moneys in numbered bank accounts" 
to which  we  are tempted to add one can understand the immorality of the Bankers  who  maintained 
numbered accounts but it is difficult to understand the amorality of the Governments and their laws 
 
Page | 388  

 

 

Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act 
[which  defined  ‘illegally  acquired  properties’]  inter  alia  held  that  such 

properties are earned and acquired through illegal and corrupt means, at the 

cost of the people and the State, and hence these properties must justly go back 

where they belong. It also held that the said  principle  arises on account  of  a 
constructive trust and would also apply in the violation of any other law. 

 

j.  In case of conflict between SEBI’s right to disgorgement (or that of securities 

investors  to  be  restituted)  and  the  right  of  secured  creditors,  the  secured 
creditors/creditors cannot seek to enrich themselves from the proceeds of an 

illegal  activity.  However,  they  can  seek  assets  not  acquired  from  such 

proceeds.248  Like  Shylock,  they  may  extract  their  pound  of  flesh  from  the 

debtor, but shed no blood of the investors. 

 

k.  Where financial  creditors, especially regulated  businesses such as  banks and 

financial  institutions  fail  to  exercise  due  diligence  and  give  credit/lending  to 

operators  of  unregulated  securities  schemes  or  schemes  where  fraudulent 

default  is  taken  place,  the  law  does  not  protect  and  give  them  priority  and 

precedence. It does not incentivize lending to operators of unregulated schemes 

and those engaging in fraudulent default in regulated schemes. In this respect 

it may be noted that the US Bankruptcy Code249 is more explicit in excluding 

from the bankruptcy  estate, “[p]roperty in which the debtor holds, as of the 

commencement  of  the  case,  only  legal  title  and  not  an  equitable  interest  … 

becomes property of the estate … only to the extent of the debtor’s legal title to 

                                                           

which sanction such practices in effect encouraging them. The ratio of this decision applies equally 
where a person acquires properties by violating the law and at the expense of and to the detriment of 
the  State  and  its  revenues  where  an  enactment  provides  for  such  a  course,  even  if  the  fiduciary 
relationship  referred  to  in  Reid  is  not  present.  (emphasis  supplied)  It  may  be  seen  that  the  concept 
employed in Reid" was a common law concept, whereas here is a case of an express statutory provision 
providing for such forfeiture. May we say in conclusion that "the interests of society are paramount to 
individual interests and the two must be brought into just and harmonious relation. A mere property 
career is not the final destiny of mankind, if progress is to be the law of the future as it has been of the 
past". (Lewis Henry Morgan: Ancient Society).” 

order 

dated 

248 Standard Chartered Bank & Ors v Deputy Director, Directorate of Enforcement, Mumbai, PMLA Appellate 
Tribunal, 
at 
<http://atfp.gov.in/writereaddata/upload/Judgement/Judgement_FMSMWJERQT_78805.PDF>. It may be noted 
that the violations of securities laws are now covered under the PMLA as scheduled offences by virtue of The 
Prevention of Money-Laundering (Amendment) Act, 2012. 
249 Title 11, U. S. Code, Section 541, (d), available at <https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/USCODE-2011-
title11/pdf/USCODE-2011-title11-chap5-subchapIII-sec541.pdf> 

02.08.2018 

available 

 

 
Page | 389  

 

such property, but not to the extent of any equitable interest in such property 
that the debtor does not hold.” The property is part of the estate of the bankrupt 

only to the extent of his legal right, if he has any, and subject to the equitable 

interest of another. Thus, where the debtor holds bare legal title without any 

equitable  interest,  the  estate  acquires  bare  legal  title  without  any  equitable 
interest.250 Especially given the fact that in cases where the defaulter did not 

have the legal authorization to collect monies through the issuance of securities, 

the defaulter may not even have the prima facie legal right to create a security 

interest in the trust asset. In this regard the Delhi High Court in the matter of 

Deputy Director, Directorate of Enforcement v Axis Bank & Ors.251 vide order 
dated  02.04.2019  has  on  similar  lines  inter  alia  dealt  with  the  burden  of 

proving that a third party including a secured creditor, has “acted in good faith”, 

taking “all reasonable precautions”, as follows,- 

“153....This court .... finds it difficult to accept that a property may be 
allowed escape from civil sanction under PMLA only on the plea of the 

third party claiming to be at "no fault" or to have acted "without notice" 

of the criminal activity engaged in by the person from whom interest is 

acquired. As would be elaborated hereinafter, the burden to prove facts 

to  rebut  the  statutory  presumptions  necessitates  more  than  mere 

ignorance to be shown. (emphasis supplied) 

... 

163. …, it is clear that if a bonafide third party claimant had acquired 

interest in the property which is being subjected to attachment at a time 
anterior to the commission of the criminal activity, the product whereof 

is  suspected  as  proceeds  of  crime,  the  acquisition  of  such  interest  in 

such  property  (otherwise  assumably  untainted)  by  such  third  party 

cannot  conceivably be on account of intent  to defeat or frustrate this 

law.  In  this  view,  it  can  be  concluded  that  the  date  or  period  of  the 

commission of criminal activity which is the basis of such action under 

PMLA can be safely treated as the cut-off. From this, it naturally follows 

                                                           
250  In  Re  N  S  Garrott  &  Sons  &  Anr,  772  F.2d  462  (U.S.C.A.  8th  Circuit),  available  at 
<https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/457909/in-re-ns-garrott-sons-and-eastern-arkansas-planting-company-
a-joint/>. 
251 Available at <https://ibbi.gov.in/webadmin/pdf/whatsnew/2019/Apr/RKG02042019CRLA1432018_2019-04-
03%2014:45:26.pdf>. 

 

 
Page | 390  

 

that an interest in the property of an accused, vesting in a third party 
acting bona fide, for lawful and adequate consideration, acquired prior 

to the commission of the proscribed offence evincing illicit pecuniary 

benefit to the former, cannot be defeated or frustrated by attachment of 

such property to such extent by the enforcement authority in exercise of 
its power under Section 8 PMLA. 

... 

170. But, the above exception cannot be applied to all cases of bona fide 

third party claimants so as to confer a general right to seek release of 

such property as last mentioned above from attachment even in cases 
where the encumbrance is created or interest acquired at a time around 

or after the date or period of criminal activity. In this category of cases, 

the  third  party  will  have  the  additional  burden  to  prove  that  it  had 

exercised due diligence having "taken all reasonable precautions" at the 
time  of  acquisition  of  such  interest  or  creation  of  such  charge,  the 

jurisdiction to entertain and inquire into such claim and grant relief of 

release after order of attachment has attainted finality, or of restoration 

after  order  of  confiscation,  vesting  only  in  the  special  court  under 

Section  8(7)  &  (8)  PMLA.  The  due  diligence  is  to  be  tested  amongst 

others,  on  the  touchstone  of  questions  as  to  whether  the  party  had 

indulged in transaction after due inquiry about untainted status of the 

asset or legitimacy of its acquisition.” (emphasis supplied) 

 
Though an attempt to arrive at tracing of assets is generally important when dealing 

with trusts, it must be noted that it is common experience in dealing with unregistered 

schemes  that  the  funds  raised  by  issue  of  securities  generally  represents  the  most 

important source of monies for the issuer. The interplay of trust law and insolvency 

law was discussed in the famous international bankruptcy cases relating to Lehman 

Bros. In Re Lehman Brothers International (Europe) (in administration),252 Patten 

LJ inter alia held as follows,- 

                                                           
252 
available 
<http://www.trusts.it/admincp/UploadedPDF/201102211153260.jEngLehman2009civ1161.pdf>. 

EWCA 

[2009] 

Civ 

1161; 

 

at 

 
Page | 391  

 

 

“33. The foundation of Mr Snowden's argument is that a beneficiary under 
a  trust  is  not  ipso  facto  a  creditor  of  the  trustee.  Although  the  trust 

relationship may give rise to unsecured claims against the trustee for breach 

of trust or even negligence and may sometimes exist in a wider contractual 

framework, it remains at its core a different legal relationship. Subject to the 
terms of the trust instrument, the trustee holds the trust property for the 

benefit of those beneficially entitled to it and has  a primary obligation to 

maintain  those  particular  assets  (or  any  which  replace  them)  to  the 

exclusion of all other claims. The trust property does not form part of the 

trustee's estate in the event of insolvency so as to be available to meet the 
claims of general creditors and the beneficiary is entitled to the property 

in specie free of any such claims. (emphasis supplied) 

… 

67. A proprietary claim to trust property is not a claim in respect of a debt 
or  liability  of  the  company.  The  beneficiary  is  entitled  in  equity  to  the 

property  in  the  company's  hands  and  is  asserting  his  own  proprietary 

rights over it against the trustee. The failure by a trustee to preserve that 

property  in  accordance  with  the  terms  of  the  trust  may  give  rise  to  a 

secondary liability to make financial restitution for the loss which results, 

but that is a consequence of the trust relationship and not a definition of 

it.” (emphasis supplied) 

Further, the Master of the Rolls (concurring) inter alia held as follows,- 

“75. However, I find it very hard to see how it could be said that a person ("a 

beneficiary") who has the beneficial interest in property ("trust property") 

held on trust by the company is thereby a "creditor" of the company, even 

bearing the wide meaning that word is to be given in section 895. (emphasis 

supplied) 

76.  As  Mr  Richard  Snowden  QC,  appearing  for  the  London  Investment 

Banking Association ("LIBA" who oppose the appeal because of what they 

regard  as  the  unfortunate  implications  for  London  as  a  world  financial 

centre should the administrators succeed on this appeal), says, in relation 

to such property, the beneficiary is "not a creditor of the [company] but … 

 

 
Page | 392  

 

the owner of certain specific property in the possession of the [company]" 
– to adapt an observation of Romilly MR in Sinclair v Wilson (1855) 20 

Beav 324, 331. The duty of a trustee is thus to account to the beneficiary for 

trust property. Although a breach of trust by the trustee will normally give 

rise  to  a  claim  which  constitutes  the  beneficiary  a  creditor,  the  trustee-
beneficiary relationship will not of itself give rise to the beneficiary having 

any  "pecuniary  claims"  (to  quote  from  the  very  passage  relied  on  by  the 

administrators in the judgment of Lindley LJ in Midland Coal [1895] 1 Ch 

267, 277) against the trustee.” (emphasis supplied) 

 
Thus, where a trustee becomes insolvent, all the assets belonging to the trustee are 

divided up amongst his or her creditors. But if a beneficiary has an equitable property 

right to assets held by the trustee, it cannot be said that those assets belong to the 

trustee  beneficially.  Those  assets  are,  therefore,  removed  from  the  pool  of  the 
trustee’s assets, as they belong in equity to the beneficiary. Only the remaining assets 

that belong to the trustee beneficially are then distributed amongst the remaining 

creditors (generally pari passu, or proportionally). Clearly, this puts a beneficiary in 

a much stronger position than other creditors. Similarly, if a claimant has a security 

interest  in  the  property  held  by  a  defendant  who  becomes  insolvent,  that  property 

interest  will  be  satisfied  before  the  claims  of  any  other  unsecured  creditors  are 

satisfied.253 The beneficiary is not a ‘creditor’ for the purposes of insolvency law; his 

position is higher than that of a creditor.  

 
This is not to say that the beneficiary can never be a creditor. If the loss caused to the 

beneficiaries is greater than the value of the original trust property recovered, then he 

has  a  right  to  recover  the  value  of  the  balance  out  of  the  other  general  assets  as  a 

creditor. In Schrider v. Schlossberg254 (In re Greenbelt. Rd. Second Ltd. P'ship), the 

Court inter alia held that,- 

“While courts have used § 541(d) to impose constructive trusts … § 541(d) is 

not an “equitable panacea” justifying the imposition of a constructive trust 

                                                           
253 Paul S Davies & Graham Virgo, Equity & Trusts: Text, cases and materials, Oxford Univ. Press, 2013, Part I: 
Introduction to Equity, p 11. 
254  39  F.3d  1176. 
courts/F3/39/1176/511801/>. 

at  <https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/appellate-

(4th  Cir.  1994), 

available 

 

 
Page | 393  

 

 

whenever a debtor’s misconduct caused a creditor to suffer.... Constructive 
trusts,  therefore,  cannot  arise  by  post  hoc  rationalizations  provided  by 

putative beneficiaries who are displeased because they are merely general, 

unsecured creditors. The party seeking to impose a constructive trust must 

“establish…  that  his  funds  can  be  traced  to  the  account  or  property  over 
which he seeks to impose a constructive trust....” If the trust … “funds ha[ve] 

been dissipated or so mingled255 and merged with the general assets of the 

insolvent estate as not to be separable or distinguishable therefrom, there is 

no  identification,  and  the  cestui  que  trust  has  no  claim  other  than  as  a 

general creditor.”” (internal citations omitted). 

Further, this does not mean that secured creditors can once again take a dip into the 

general assets if the value of the secured assets results in a shortfall; such creditors 

must be restricted to recovery from their collateral and not dip into assets over which 
a trust extends.256 Further, it is possible that persons running the unlawful schemes, 

including employees and persons referring investors to the unlawful scheme, may be 

creditors. To a large extent, such persons must be excluded from claiming any priority 

over the right of investors.257 Similarly, equity being the overarching principle of any 

trust, if some of the investors were also involved in perpetuating the scheme, they too 

may be excluded from recovering.258 The present IBC is a work in progress and is not 

designed for dealing with claims arising out of trusts, hence several changes may be 

required.  

 

                                                           
255 In respect of commingling of assets, in the Indian context see inter alia section 66 of the Indian Trust Act, 
1882 which is in line with the judgment in SEC v Better Life Club of Am. Inc. 
256 S.E.C. v Byers, 637 F. Supp. 2d 166 (S.D.N.Y. 2009), available at <https://casetext.com/case/sec-v-byers-5>. 
257 See S.E.C. v Byers, 637 F. Supp. 2d 166 (S.D.N.Y. 2009), available at <https://casetext.com/case/sec-v-byers-
5>;  S.E.C.  v.  Basic  Energy  Affiliated  Res.,  273  F.3d  657,  660  (6th  Cir.  2001)  available  at,  < 
https://casetext.com/case/sec-v-basic-energy-affiliated-resources?resultsNav=false#p660>;  S.E.C.  v.  Merrill 
Scott  Assocs.,  No.  02  Civ.  39,  2006  U.S.  Dist.  LEXIS  93248,  (D.  Utah  Dec.  21,  2006),  available  at  < 
https://casetext.com/case/securities-exch-comm-v-merrill-scott-assoc-3?resultsNav=false>;  S.E.C.  v.  Enter. 
Trust Co., No. 08 C 1260 (N.D. Ill. Oct. 7, 2008) available at <  https://casetext.com/case/securities-exchange-
comm-v-enterprise-tr-co>. 
258 See S.E.C. v Byers, 637 F. Supp. 2d 166 (S.D.N.Y. 2009), available at <https://casetext.com/case/sec-v-byers-
5>;  S.E.C.  v  Credit  Bancorp,  99  Civ.  11395  (RWS)  (S.D.N.Y.  Nov.  29,  2000),  available  at, 
<https://casetext.com/case/securities-and-exchange-commission-v-credit-bancorp-sdny-2000>. 

 

 
Page | 394  

 

SEBI successfully obtained judgment from the Federal Court of Australia in the matter 
of Kadam & Ors. v MiiResorts Group 1 Pty Ltd & Ors.259, by utilising the law of trusts 

in respect of monies siphoned off from an unregistered collective investment scheme. 

The case is a landmark in SEBI’s enforcement history and indicates that enforcement 

of securities laws is not merely based on explicit provisions of the SEBI Act and failure 
to obtain registration does not vitiate the trust obligation. Rather it is an amalgam of 

law of trusts, company law, etc. In respect of super-priority of beneficiaries, a cue may 

be had from insolvency law, where courts generally deal with claims from beneficiaries 

and creditors over the assets of the debtor on the ground that the assets did not become 

part of the property of the debtor and are therefore not divisible among its creditors, 
whether or not they have been held formally in trust as long as the monies have been 

impressed  with  a  character  which  prevents  it  from  becoming  the  property  of  the 

debtor.260 

 
 

Differentiating monies and assets held in trust: There are several rules relating 

to identifying monies and assets required to be held in trust. While pooled assets such 

as those required to be kept by a collective investment scheme can only be traced to 

the level of pooling; un-pooled assets, such as an account  in a portfolio investment 

scheme, can be traced to each investor provided co-mingling has not happened. Even 

in case of co-mingling several rules exist for enabling the benefit of the trust.  

 

In dealing with monies raised from the public and managed by the debtor-company 
under  insolvency  process,  it  becomes  important  to  identify  and  segregate  the  trust 

property or its equivalent from assets of the company. This burden cannot be placed 

on the millions of investors or the Board, who are outsiders to the management of the 

Judgment 

dated 

20.07.2018 

                                                           
259 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/sep-
2018/1536728840793.pdf>; 
<https://www.sebi.gov.in/web/?file=https://www.sebi.gov.in/sebi_data/attachdocs/sep-
2018/1536728821892.pdf>. 
260 Ganesh Export & Import Co. v Mahadeolal Nathmal, AIR 1956 Cal 188 : 1955 (25) CompCas 357 (Cal); 
Baroda Spinning & Weaving Mills Co. Ltd v Baroda Spinning & Weaving Mills (Rajratna Sheth Zaverchand 
Laxmichand) Co-operative Credit Society Ltd., Baroda & Anr, 1976 (1) GLR 555 : 1976 (46) CompCas 1 
(Guj); The Official Assignee of Madras v Krishnaji Bhat, AIR 1933 PC 148 : 60 IA 203 : ILR 56 Mad. 570; 
Official Liquidator v N. Chandranarayanan, 1973 (43) CompCas 244 (Mad). 

23.07.2018 

Order 

dated 

available 

available 

at 

at 

 

 
Page | 395  

 

company. In this respect, the rationale of the Court in  Wolff v. United States (In re 
FirstPay, Inc.),261 which inter alia held as follows may be referred to,- 

“We do not read Levin to have held, as the Trustee here suggests, that funds 

must be segregated in order to be traceable and subject to a trust. “[C]ourts 

have  consistently  rejected  the  notion  that  commingling  of  trust  property, 
without more, is sufficient to defeat tracing.” In re Dameron, 155 F.3d at 723–

24 (4th Cir.1998). In another case, the Maryland Court of Appeals held that 

“[i]t  is  not  essential  to  a  sufficient  identification  that  the  fund  or  property 

delivered to the trustee be traced in the precise or identical form in which it 

was received[.]” Cnty. Comm'rs of Frederick Cnty. v. Page, 163 Md. 619, 164 
A.  182,  190 (1933)  ;  see  also  MacBryde  v.  Burnett,  132  F.2d  898,  900  (4th 

Cir.1942) (holding that, under Maryland law, “it is not necessary in asserting 

the rights of the cestui que trust that the trust funds be specifically traced”). 

 

A  beneficiary's  entitlement  to  a  trust  fund  fails  for  insufficiency  of 

identification “where it appears that the trust fund has been dissipated or so 

mingled and merged with the general assets of the insolvent estate as not to be 

separable or distinguishable therefrom [.]” Page, 164 A. at 191. However, “if a 

trustee or fiduciary mixes trust funds with his own, the whole will be treated 

as trust property, except so far as he may be able to distinguish what is his from 

that which belongs to the trust[.]” MacBryde, 132 F.2d at 900 (4th Cir.1942) 

(quoting Englar v. Offutt, 70 Md. 78, 16 A. 497, 499 (1889) ). “So long as a 

trust fund can be traced, the court will always attribute the ownership thereof 
to  the  cestui  que  trust,  and  will  not  allow  the  right  to  be  defeated  by  the 

wrongful act of the trustee or fiduciary in mixing or confusing the trust fund 

with funds of his own, or even those of a third party.” Englar, 16 A. at 499.”  

 

 

The  Berkeley  Applegate  principle:  Since  the  previous  management  of  the 

company admitted to insolvency loses the power to deal with the company assets, it 

cannot  discharge  the  burden  of  identifying  the  trust  assets  vis-à-vis  the  company 

                                                           
261 773 F.3d 583, 594 (4th Cir. 2014), available at <https://casetext.com/case/wolff-v-united-states-in-re-firstpay-
inc>. 

 

 
Page | 396  

 

assets. Under the IBC, the power to deal with the company assets, the right to manage 
the company and deal with its books of accounts primarily vest with the Insolvency 

professional.  The  Berkeley  Applegate  principle  [first  identified  in  Re  Berkeley 

Applegate  (Investment  Consultants) ltd. (No.3),  (1989)  5  B.C.C.  803  per  Gibson  J. 

p.805262] is useful for making the insolvency discharge the duty of differentiating the 
trust assets from other assets of the company and to be paid out of such funds. As a 

corollary of the rule that only the company’s assets are available to the creditors, the 

liquidator has no power as the liquidator, to sell assets not beneficially owned by the 

company.  However  if  the  company  is  a  trustee with  management  powers  under  an 

active trust, the liquidator may, with the consent of the beneficiaries or under an order 
of the court, manage the trust property on behalf of the beneficiaries and realise the 

trust  property  as  part  of  that  management.263  Where  the  liquidator  does  so,  his 

remuneration  and  expenses  for  so  doing  cannot  be  treated  as  expenses  of  the 

                                                           
262 The principle is now defined as the ‘Berkeley Applegate principle’ first identified in Re Berkeley Applegate 
(Investment Consultants) ltd. (No.3), (1989) 5 B.C.C. 803 per Gibson J. p.805, cited in Elliot Green v Timothy 
Bramston 
at 
<https://www.bailii.org/ew/cases/EWHC/Ch/2010/3106.html> : 

available 

[2010] 

Anr, 

& 

EWHC 

3106 

(Ch) 

"The  point  is  to  my  mind  a  short  one,  and  largely  one  of  first  impression.  Looking  at  s  115  [of  the 
Insolvency Act 1986], for my part I have no doubt that the remuneration of the liquidator for administering 
trust assets which are not the assets of the company and the costs and expenses incurred by the liquidator, 
again not in getting in or paying out or distributing the assets of the company, but in administering trust 
assets, are outside the wording of the section. To my mind it is clear that the section is simply dealing with 
the  winding  up  of  the  company,  involving  as  it  does  the  getting  in  of  the  assets  of  the  company, 
ascertaining its creditors, paying its liabilities in accordance with the statutory provisions and distributing 
any surplus. I do not think that on any ordinary reading "expenses properly incurred in the winding up, 
including  the  remuneration  of  the  liquidator"  would  include  expenses  and  remuneration  which  the 
liquidator has incurred and has been awarded by the court in respect of the work he has done administering 
the trust property held by the company as trustee, and in my judgment the section must be construed as 
limited to the liquidator's expenses in, and remuneration for, dealing with assets of the company. Take the 
reference to the remuneration of the liquidator. There is no doubt to my mind that that does not include 
what the court in its inherent jurisdiction has awarded to the liquidator in respect of the work he has been 
doing not as liquidator but as trustee in administering the trust assets. Similarly the other expenses that 
are referred to as being incurred in the winding up cannot be expenses in relation to what are not the assets 
of the company. 

On that short point therefore, I would hold that the remuneration in question and the costs and expenses 
are outside what it is permissible to pay out of the company's assets… The effect therefore is that if there 
be  any  surplus  of  corporate  assets  over  expenses  of  the  liquidation  alone,  unsecured  creditors  will  be 
entitled to claim in respect thereof." 

; Re French Caledonia Travel Service Pty Ltd., (2003) 204 A.L.R. 353 (NSW Supreme Court) dealing with the 
principles  of  trust  law  to  be  applied  to  enable  identification  and  distribution  by  the  liquidator,  available  at 
<https://iknow.cch.com.au/document/atagUio378049sl10433168/re-french-caledonia-travel>. 
263  Royston  Miles  Goode,  Principles  of  Corporate  Insolvency  Law,  4th  edition,  pp  95-96,  available  at 
<https://books.google.co.in/books?id=mtK4kQIhEowC&printsec=frontcover&dq=principles+of+corporate+ins
olvency+law&hl=en&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwi6u5f-
45ngAhXLso8KHaPdA7kQ6AEILTAA#v=onepage&q=principles%20of%20corporate%20insolvency%20law
&f=false>. 

 

 
Page | 397  

 

liquidation, being for the benefit of the trust beneficiaries rather than the company, 
and must be borne by the trust assets. Conversely, any portion of the liquidator’s work 

and expenses not attributable to the trust property ought to be borne by the general 

creditors out of the company’s free assets. Nevertheless, the courts have in exceptional 

cases been prepared to allow these to be taken, wholly or in part, from the trust assets, 
as  where  the  trust  assets  form  part  of  a  commingled  fund  and  it  is  difficult  to 

distinguish  between  trust  assets  and  assets  beneficially  owned  by  the  company.  In 

some  cases,  the  liquidator’s  total  remuneration  has  also  been  paid  out  of  the  trust 

funds in the same proportion that the trust assets bore to the aggregate fund.  

 
 

Protecting bonafide third parties: Similar difficulty may arise in case of assets 

being  transferred  to  third  parties.  The  Delhi  High  Court  in  the  matter  of  Deputy 

Director,  Directorate  of  Enforcement  v  Axis  Bank  &  Ors.,264  vide  order  dated 
02.04.2019 inter alia  gave elaborate  directions on how the rights  of bonafide third 

parties, including secured creditors, will be protected,- 

“(viii).  The  PMLA,  RDBA,  SARFAESI  Act  and  Insolvency  Code  (or  such 

other laws) must co-exist, each to be construed and enforced in harmony, 

without  one  being  in  derogation  of  the  other  with  regard  to  the  assets 

respecting which there is material available to show the same to have been 

"derived or obtained" as a result of "criminal activity relating to a scheduled 

offence" and consequently being "proceeds of crime", within the mischief of 

PMLA. 
(ix). If the property of a person other than the one accused of (or charged 

with)  the  offence  of  money-laundering,  i.e.  a  third  party,  is  sought  to  be 

attached and there is evidence available to show that such property before 

its acquisition was held by the person accused of money-laundering (or his 

abettor), or it was involved in a transaction which had inter-connection with 

transactions concerning money-laundering, the burden of proving facts to 

the contrary so as to seek release of such property from attachment is on the 

person who so contends. 

                                                           
264 Available at <https://ibbi.gov.in/webadmin/pdf/whatsnew/2019/Apr/RKG02042019CRLA1432018_2019-04-
03%2014:45:26.pdf>. 

 

 
Page | 398  

 

 

(x). The charge or encumbrance of a third party in a property attached under 
PMLA cannot be treated or declared as "void" unless material is available to 

show that it was created "to defeat" the said law, such declaration rendering 

such property available for attachment and confiscation under PMLA, free 

from such encumbrance. 
(xi). A party in order to be considered as a "bonafide third party claimant" 

for its claim in a property being subjected to attachment under PMLA to be 

entertained must show, by cogent evidence, that it had acquired interest in 

such property lawfully and for adequate consideration, the party itself not 

being privy to, or complicit in, the offence of money-laundering, and that it 
has made all compliances with the existing law including, if so required, by 

having said security interest registered. 

(xii).  An  order  of  attachment  under  PMLA  is  not  illegal  only  because  a 

secured creditor has a prior secured interest (charge) in the property, within 
the meaning of the expressions used in RDBA and SARFAESI Act. Similarly, 

mere issuance of an order of attachment under PMLA does not ipso facto 

render illegal a prior charge or encumbrance of a secured creditor, the claim 

of  the  latter  for  release  (or  restoration)  from  PMLA  attachment  being 

dependent on its bonafides. 

(xiii). If it is shown by cogent evidence by the bonafide third party claimant 

(as  aforesaid),  staking  interest  in  an  alternative  attachable  property  (or 

deemed tainted property), claiming that it had acquired the same at a time 

around or after the commission of the proscribed criminal activity, in order 
to  establish  a  legitimate  claim  for  its  release  from  attachment  it  must 

additionally prove that it had taken “due diligence" (e.g. taking reasonable 

precautions and after due inquiry) to ensure that it was not a tainted asset 

and the transactions indulged in were legitimate at the time of acquisition 

of such interest. 

(xiv). If it is shown by cogent evidence by the bonafide third party claimant 

(as  aforesaid),  staking  interest  in  an  alternative  attachable  property  (or 

deemed tainted property) claiming that it had acquired the same at a time 

anterior to the commission of the proscribed criminal activity, the property 

to  the  extent  of  such  interest  of  the  third  party  will  not  be  subjected  to 

 
Page | 399  

 

confiscation  so  long  as  the  charge  or  encumbrance  of  such  third  party 
subsists,  the  attachment  under  PMLA  being  valid  or  operative  subject  to 

satisfaction of the charge or encumbrance of such third party and restricted 

to such part of the value of the property as is in excess of the claim of the 

said third party. 
(xv).  If  the  bonafide  third  party  claimant  (as  aforesaid)  is  a  "secured 

creditor",  pursuing  enforcement  of  "security  interest"  in  the  property 

(secured  asset)  sought  to  be  attached,  it  being  an  alternative  attachable 

property (or deemed tainted property), it having acquired such interest from 

person(s) accused of (or charged with) the offence of money-laundering (or 
his abettor), or from any other person through such transaction (or inter-

connected  transactions)  as  involve(s)  criminal  activity  relating  to  a 

scheduled  offence,  such  third  party  (secured  creditor)  having  initiated 

action in accordance with law for enforcement of such interest prior to the 
order of attachment under PMLA, the directions of such attachment under 

PMLA shall be valid and operative subject to satisfaction of the charge or 

encumbrance of such third party and restricted to such part of the value of 

the property as is in excess of the claim of the said third party. 

(xvi). In the situations covered by the preceding  two sub-paragraphs, the 

bonafide  third  party  claimant  shall  be  accountable  to  the  enforcement 

authorities  for  the  "excess"  value  of  the  property  subjected  to  PMLA 

attachment.” 

 

The line of enquiry indicated by the Delhi HC is instructive and will serve as an apercu 

while framing the rules for the insolvency professional regarding the segregation of 

assets for recovery of monies held in trust while protecting the interests of bonafide 

third parties, including secured creditors. 

 

 

Petitioning the Adjudicating Authority and trust property: One of the issues 

to be dealt with is the locus standii to petition the Adjudicating Authority under the 

IBC. As a corollary to aforesaid discussion, the position of subscribers of securities to 

whom monies is due for refund, can be that of ‘beneficiaries’ if the assets are traceable 

 

 
Page | 400  

 

(or  their  converted  or  blended  assets  are  available)  rather  than  as  ‘creditors’.  They 
cannot be eligible to file an insolvency petition unless the trust assets have been totally 

dissipated without recourse and the beneficiaries claim is transformed into a financial 

claim for damages. Such ‘subscribers’ do not have the de jure right of a share-holder 

or debenture holder. If, however, no assets can be determined for the purpose of the 
trust, then the position of such trust beneficiaries may be reduced to a general creditor. 

Further, if the allotment of securities has been lawfully made, then and then only can 

such applicants be considered as holders of securities. In which case, their standing 

under  insolvency  and  bankruptcy  law  is  to  be  determined  as  holder  of  relevant 

securities, e.g. equity share-holders will be liable to receive monies as per the waterfall, 
whereas secured debenture holders will be secured creditors and their standing will be 

superior and determined as per the nature of the security made available for them. 

Thus, where the allotment of the securities is not in dispute, the manner of claim will 

depend on the waterfall. Difficulty will however arise in case where the allotment is 
invalid  and  due  to  a  resulting  trust  the  investors  could  apply  as  beneficiaries  or 

creditors,  depending  on  whether  or  not  trust  assets  (or  their  converted  or  blended 

assets are available) exist. However, this investigation into the assets can only be done 

after the petition is admitted and the same is best left to the insolvency professional 

under the Berkeley Applegate principle. There should be some provision under which 

a  claim  can  be  filed.  In  civil  matters,  where  property  of  a  third  party  has  been 

sequestered or a receiver has been appointed, a petition for examination pro interesse 

suo  is  permitted  to  prove  the  title  and  release  of  their  assets.265  In  the  matter  of 

                                                           
265 See Naresh Shridhar Mirajkar And Ors vs State Of Maharashtra And Anr, AIR 1967 SC 1, 1966 (3) SCR 744 
wherein the Supreme Court inter alia held that,- 

“The jurisdiction of the Court does not depend on who the person affected by its order, is. Courts often 
have  to  pass  orders  which  affect  strangers  to  the  proceedings  before  them.  To  take  a  common  case, 
suppose a court appoints a receiver of a property about which certain persons are litigating but which in 
fact belongs to another. That person is as much bound by the order appointing the receiver as the parties 
to it are. His remedy is to move the court by an application pro interesse suo. He cannot by force prevent 
the  receiver  from  taking  possession  and  justify  his  action  on  the  ground  that  the  order  was  without 
jurisdiction  and  therefore  violated  his  fundamental  right  to  hold  property.  It  would  be  an  intolerable 
calamity if the law were otherwise. 
... 
If a stranger to the proceeding feels aggrieved by 
the order, he may take appropriate steps for setting 
it aside, but while it lasts, it must be obeyed. Take a case where a Court appoints a receiver over a property 
in a suit concerning it. If a stranger interested in the property is prejudiced by the order, his proper course 
is to apply to the Court to enforce his right, and the Court will then examine his claim and give him the 
relief to which he may be entitled.” 

 

 
Page | 401  

 

Weather Makers Pvt. Ltd. v Parabolic Drugs Ltd.266, the application for recovery of 
assets  was  filed  under  sub-section  (5)  of  section  60  of  the  IBC  which  permits  the 

National Company Law Tribunal to entertain or dispose of,- 

(a) any application or proceeding by or against the corporate debtor or corporate 

person; 
(b)  any  claim  made  by  or  against  the  corporate  debtor  or  corporate  person, 

including claims by or against any of its subsidiaries situated in India; and 

(c) any question of priorities or any question of law or facts, arising out of or in 

relation to the insolvency resolution or liquidation proceedings of the corporate 

debtor or corporate person under this Code. 

 

Similar  provision  exists  under  Section  179  of  the  IBC  in  respect  of  bankruptcy  of 

individuals and partnership firms. This is similar to Section 280 of the Companies Act, 

2013. As on date, a petition for examination pro interesse suo would have to be filed 
under Section 60 of the IBC, for lack of a well-defined procedure under the IBC. A well-

defined procedure under the IBC at the outset would help in protecting the trust assets 

from being dissipated towards any creditor oriented resolution or liquidation. A well-

defined  procedure  will  be  beneficial  for  beneficiaries  of  trusts  (private  or  public), 

whether or not such trusts are financial trusts regulated by a financial regulator, and 

may also be helpful to a financial regulator such as SEBI seeking recovery of assets 

held  in  trust  pursuant  to  disgorgement  or  refund  or  forfeiture  obligation  under 

applicable laws. 

  
Thus,  in order to deal with the issue of properties held  in ‘trust’, there is a need to 

confirm  whether  the  ‘trust’-based  activity  was  duly  registered  with  the  Board  or 

otherwise. 

A.  In  case  of  the  resolution/liquidation  of  a  person  who  is  duly  registered;  the 

lawful  claims  of  various  creditors,  including  secured  creditors  will  have 

precedence over trust beneficiaries. Such claims being incurred for running the 

lawful enterprise, the registered person being in the position of a trustee, has 

the right of indemnification from the assets of the trust for debts incurred in 

                                                           
266 
pdf/FINAL%20Orders%20on%20CA%20206%20of%2019%20in%20CP%20102%20of%2018%20-
60%285%29-Weather%20Makers.pdf>. 

Available 

at 

<https://nclt.gov.in/sites/default/files/Interim-order-

 

 
Page | 402  

 

operating the trust. The right of indemnity is comprised of two distinct parts. A 
right of recoupment (being the right to recoup money from the trust assets in 

respect of liabilities which the trustee has previously discharged from their own 

funds)  and  a  right  of  exoneration  (being  a  right  to  discharge  trust  liabilities 

directly from the assets of the trust).267 Both the right of recoupment and right 
of exoneration will pass to the bankruptcy trustee/liquidator as the part of the 

trustee’s estate. In case of any co-mingling the approach indicated in B. would 

also have to be followed. 

 

B.  If the resolution/liquidation is of a person who is not registered or authorized 

by the Board, various factors arise and the following need to be considered,- 

a.  Whether the assets in ‘trust’ are traceable (or their converted or blended 

assets are available) or not; 

b.  If assets are traceable there may exist a proprietary right in respect of 

such assets which will need to be separated and kept aside; and 

c.  If the assets are not traceable by reason of conversion or blending., the 
claim in respect of such assets may extend to such converted or blended 
assets; 

d.  If the assets are not traceable due to dissipation of trust assets, the claim 
in respect of such assets will be reduced to a claim as a general creditor. 
e.  If there is a secured charge of a third party on certain assets it would need 
to be seen if the secured charge has lawfully perfected, if not the claim in 
favor of the trust would prevail. This will also depend on the (i) nature of 
assets - moveable properties268 may not require the level of due diligence 
that immoveable properties may require - as well as the (ii) nature of the 
lender-  banks,  nbfc’s,  etc.,  that  are  required  to  follow  fixed  lending 
norms  to  ensure  public  funds  are  not  jeopardized  and  (iii)  the 
circumstances in which the transaction was executed.  

f.  In case of perfected secured charge, - (a) if the value of the secured asset 
is not sufficient to satisfy the secured charge, the secured creditor should 
not be entitled to dip into the assets charged in favour of the trust or may 
do  so  after  the  claim  of  the  trust  has  been  satisfied;  (b)  the  investors 
claim against the secured asset will be reduced to a claim as a general 
creditor.  
 
 

                                                           
267  See  Regulation  37(4)  of  the  SEBI  (Collective  Investment  Schemes)  Regulations,  1999  which  permit  the 
payment of liabilities incurred for the scheme and scheme winding up costs to be paid ahead of the claims of unit 
holders. 
268 Moveable properties are freely transferable and bonafide purchasers for value with no notice of the underlying 
violation are protected. See iTrade Finance Inc. v Bank of Montreal, [2011] 2 SCR 360, available at <https://scc-
csc.lexum.com/scc-csc/scc-csc/en/item/7940/index.do>; MBank-Waco, NA v. L. & J., Inc., 754 S.W.2d 245 (Tex. 
App. 1988), available at <https://www.courtlistener.com/opinion/1780475/mbank-waco-na-v-l-j-inc/>.  

 

 
Page | 403  

 

IV.  APPLICATION  OF  MORATORIUM  UNDER  IBC  TO  SECURITIES  LAWS 

PROCEEDINGS. 

 

Section 14 of the IBC contains a moratorium against suit and proceedings against a 

company that has been admitted for insolvency. It reads as follows,- 

 

 

 

“Section 14. Moratorium. - 

(1)  Subject  to  provisions  of  sub-sections  (2)  and  (3),  on  the  insolvency 
commencement  date,  the  Adjudicating  Authority  shall  by  order  declare 

moratorium for prohibiting all of the following, namely: -  

(a) the institution of suits or continuation of pending suits or proceedings 

against  the  corporate  debtor  including  execution  of  any  judgement, 
decree or order in any court of law, tribunal, arbitration panel or other 

authority; 

(b)  transferring,  encumbering,  alienating  or  disposing  off  by  the 

corporate debtor any of its assets or any legal right or beneficial interest 

therein; 

(c) any action to foreclose, recover or enforce any security interest created 

by  the  corporate  debtor  in  respect  of  its  property  including  any  action 

under  the  Securitisation  and  Reconstruction  of  Financial  Assets  and 

Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002); 
(d)  the  recovery  of  any  property  by  an  owner  or  lessor  where  such 

property is occupied by or in the possession of the corporate debtor. 

(2) The supply of essential goods or services to the corporate debtor as may be 

specified  shall  not  be  terminated  or  suspended  or  interrupted  during 

moratorium period. 

(3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply to — 

(a)  such  transaction  as  may  be  notified  by  the  Central  Government  in 

consultation with any financial regulator; 

(b) a surety in a contract of guarantee to a corporate debtor. 

 

 
Page | 404  

 

 

(4) The order of moratorium shall have effect from the date of such order till 
the completion of the corporate insolvency resolution process: 

Provided  that  where  at any  time  during  the corporate insolvency resolution 

process  period,  if  the  Adjudicating  Authority  approves  the  resolution  plan 

under  sub-section  (1)  of  section  31  or  passes  an  order  for  liquidation  of 
corporate debtor under section 33, the moratorium shall cease to have effect 

from the date of such approval or liquidation order, as the case may be.” 

A bare reading of the moratorium provision u/s 14 of the IBC (and similar provisions 

in Section 33, 81, 85, 101 and 124 of the IBC) would seem to indicate that bankruptcy 
process may become a refuge from all and any kind of action against the debtor which 

can  be  subject  to  abuse.  It  may  be  noted  that  similar  widely  worded  moratoriums 

existed under the liquidation process in case of Companies Act, 1956 (Section 446) and 

Companies Act, 2013 (Section 279) and also under the resolution process under the 
Sick  Industrial  Companies  (Special  Provisions)  Act,  1985.  However,  courts  have 

interpreted  the  term  'suit  or  legal  proceedings'  in  the  moratorium  provisions  as 

extending  only  to  those  cases  where  the  company  court  (HC/NCLT)  can  deal  and 

dispose of matter. In all other cases, the action does not stop. 

 

Therefore the following need to be considered in the context of IBC,- 

i.  Criminal proceedings against the debtor; 

ii.  Civil proceedings which “assess” civil liability under special laws; 

iii.  Civil proceedings for recovery of monies due against assets of the debtor; 
iv.  Civil proceedings for recovery of “assets held in trust”; 

v. 

vi. 

Interim orders; 

Settlement Proceedings; 

vii.  Other proceedings under securities laws where the debtor may be a party. 

 

 

Institution and continuation of criminal proceedings: It has been the general 

determination of courts that criminal proceedings against the debtor are not barred 

 

 
Page | 405  

 

merely because of commencement of insolvency.269 However due to recent insertion 
of Section 32A in the IBC, criminal proceedings against corporate debtor shall cease 

upon approval of resolution plan by the adjudicating authority in respect of any offence 

committed  prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  Corporate  Insolvency  Resolution 

Process if it leads to a change in the management and promoter group of the corporate 
debtor. The present 32A places the Committee of Creditors in a position of conflict; as 

creditors they are allowed to approve a resolution plan that may pay off debts due to 

them under the garb of resolving a company. Section 32A will place a premium on the 

lack of due diligence required to be conducted by financial creditors, who constitute 

the Committee of Creditors. Creditors may hence forth fund illegal activities without 
appropriate due diligence, since they are aware that at the time of resolution they can 

pay  themselves  out  of  the  proceeds  acquired  illegally  by  the  debtor.  Though  it  is 

possible  that  certain  assets  acquired  illegally  may  escheat  to  the  Government,  the 

Government may by law allow the creditors to use such assets for resolution of the 
debtor company, since the title of such monies vests with the Government, which it 

can  validly  give  up.  However,  where  there  is  enforcement  authority  seeking  such 

monies  on  behalf  of  the  public  or  a  lawful  owner  of  such  monies  who  may  seek 

restitution, neither the corporate debtor has a right to utilise the assets of another to 

discharge his debts nor the creditors have the right to apply such assets, their remedy 

should be restricted to assets lawfully belonging to the creditor.  

 

It may also be noted that the moratorium provision needs to be amended so that it 

clearly reflects the right of the Board to complete its proceedings and determine the 
amount of monies to be refunded by the corporate debtor. (Under the SEBI Act, 1992 

the Investigation Authority does not determine the amounts to be refunded, thus the 

safeguards presently provided in Section 32A are insufficient).  

 

P 

& 

Ors, 

NCLAT 

order 

dated 

Mohanraj 

                                                           
269  Kusum  Ingots  &  Alloys  Limited  v.  Pennar  Peterson  Securities  Limited  and  Others  AIR  200  SC  594;  BSI 
Limited and Another v Gift Holdings Private Limited and Another AIR 2000 SC 926; Shah Brother Ispat Pvt. Ltd. 
v 
at 
<https://ibbi.gov.in//webadmin/pdf/order/2018/Aug/31st%20Jul%202018%20in%20the%20matter%20of%20Sh
ah%20Brothers%20Ispat%20Pvt.%20Ltd.%20Vs.%20P.%20Mohanraj%20&%20Ors.%20CA%20(AT)%20No.
%20306-2018_2018-08-07%2010:28:16.pdf>;  Tayal  Cotton  (P).  Ltd.  v  State  of  Maharashtra,  Bom  HC  order 
dated 
at 
<https://ibbi.gov.in//webadmin/pdf/order/2019/Jan/In%20the%20matter%20of%20Tayal%20Cotton%20Pvt%2
0Ltd%20Vs%20State%20of%20Maharashtra%20&%20Ors%20Criminal%20Writ%20Petition%20No.%20143
7-2018_2019-01-23%2022:59:30.pdf>. 

31.07.2018, 

06.08.2018, 

available 

available 

 

 
Page | 406  

 

Recommendation:  It  is  advisable  for  SEBI  to  write  to  the  Ministry  of  Corporate 
Affairs, Government of India that where public monies have been illegally siphoned 

off  into  an  estate,  Section  32A  of  the  IBC  should  be  amended  to  ensure  that  the 

creditors cannot decide to approve a resolution plan to pay themselves or resolve the 

company using the monies representing public  monies  illegally acquired,  especially 
where  the  Board  or  another  enforcement  authority  is  acting  as  parens  patriae  to 

recover such monies, as SEBI did before the Australian Courts. 

 

“Assessment  proceedings”  under  special  laws  i.e.  securities  laws: 

Insolvency  of  one  person  does  not  and  cannot  operate  as  a  total  restriction  on  the 
lawful rights of others, otherwise the default of one person would prejudicially affect 

even those who are not at fault. It must be noted that proceedings that may become 

subject to a moratorium under the IBC or the Companies Act, 2013 can be continued 

before the Adjudicating Authority (u/s 60 and 179 of the IBC) and the NCLT (u/s 280 
of the Companies Act, 2013), which have been given wide powers to decide such issues. 

The purpose of this is to ensure that all claims can be decided in one court i.e. the court 

dealing with the insolvency. 

 

However, there are  certain issues that  cannot  be decided at all by the Adjudicating 

Authority because exclusive jurisdiction in certain matters is vested with specialised 

bodies.  Thus  determination  of  guilt  and  levy  of  penalty,  assessment  of  tax  due, 

determination of “proceeds of crime”, etc. are left to specialised and exclusive tribunals 

and quasi-judicial authorities. This point gains strength from the order of the Hon'ble 
Supreme Court in the matter of Damji Valji Shah v LIC of India270 (AIR 1966 SC 135), 

that  in  proceedings  before  specialised  tribunals  with  exclusive  jurisdiction,  the 

provision relating to the moratorium will not be applicable. Section 20A of the SEBI 

Act provides exclusive jurisdiction to the Board and the Adjudicating Officer in respect 

of the issues that may be decided by them. Similarly, in Embassy Property Developers 

Pvt. Ltd. v State of Karnataka & Ors.271, the Hon’ble Supreme Court dealt with the 

issue  where  after  the  company  had  been  admitted  into  insolvency  the  State  of 

Karnataka cancelled the mining lease permission and the judicial review of that was 

                                                           
270 AIR 1955 SC 135. 
271 SC judgment dated 03.12.2019 in C.A. No. 9170 of 2019 with C.A. No. 9171 of 2019 and C.A. No. 9172 of 
2019. 

 

 
Page | 407  

 

done by the High Court of Karnataka and not the NCLT, the apex court inter alia held 
that, - 

"29. The NCLT is not even a Civil Court, which has jurisdiction by virtue 
of Section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure to try all suits of a civil nature 
excepting  suits,  of  which  their  cognizance  is  either  expressly  or 
impliedly barred. Therefore NCLT can exercise only such powers within 
the  contours  of  jurisdiction  as  prescribed  by  the  statute,  the  law  in 
respect of which, it is called upon to administer.” 

 
In respect of such specialised bodies exercising exclusive jurisdiction, a further finer 

distinction needs to be made between proceedings that “assess” the liability and those 

that recover the liability.272 The Calcutta HC in Official Liquidator, HC v CIT (WB) 273 

has held as follows,- 

"49a.  Assessment  proceedings  and  recovery  proceedings,  although 
both are proceedings under the Income-tax Act, do not, to my mind, 
stand on the same footing in so far as leave under Section 446(1) of the 
Companies Act, 1956 is concerned. So long as the duty of assessment is 
not  performed,  the  right  to  recover  does  not  arise  at  all.  Assessment 
validly done in accordance with the provisions of the Inco me-tax Act is 
the only way of creating a debt in favour of the Department and does 
not  affect the assets  and properties  of  the  company or the scheme of 
administration thereof or the winding up of the company in any way. 
(emphasis supplied) When any debt for payment of taxes arises on an 
assessment,  it  is  open  to  the  Department  to  prove  the  debt  in 
liquidation, claim payment thereof and the debt of the Department will 
be paid in the same manner as the debt of other creditors of the same 
class. It may also be open to the Department to seek to enforce its right 
of recovery of the debt in accordance with the provisions of the Income-
tax Act. But the right to enforce recovery by taking recourse to recovery 
proceeding  against  the  assets  of  the  company  in  liquidation  is  and 
cannot be an unfettered right. This right to recover in enforcement of 
the  recovery  proceedings  under  the  Income-tax  Act is  controlled 
by Section 446(1) of the Companies Act, 1956 and is subject to necessary 
leave of Court, not merely because the recovery proceeding may affect 
the estate and effects of the company and interfere with the scheme of 
administration thereof, but also because the Department may otherwise 
get an undue preference over the other creditors of the same class in 

                                                           
272 Kondaskar v ITO (Companies Circle), Bombay, (1972) 1 SCC 438 : (1972) 42 Comp Cas 168 : AIR 1972 SC 
878.  
273 AIR 1970 Cal 349. 

 

 
Page | 408  

 

violation  of  the  provisions  of  the Companies  Act,  1956....  (emphasis 
supplied) 
This  principle  of  harmonious  construction  of  the  two  Acts,  namely, 
the Income-tax Act and the Companies Act, indicates, to my mind, that 
leave of Court is necessary by the Department in respect of any recovery 
proceeding  and  no  leave  of  Court  is  necessary  by  the  Department  in 
respect  of  any  assessment  proceeding  of  the  company."  (emphasis 
supplied) 

 
The purpose of this is to ensure the determination of the liability by the specialised 

bodies and the enabling the filing of the claim by the relevant creditor. The Insolvency 

Law Committee also debated this and recognised the distinction but did not consider 
it necessary to expressly provide for this. The Committee inter alia noted as follows,- 

“5.4  Thus,  if  a  purposive  interpretation  is  given  to  section  14,  a 
moratorium  on  the  mere  determination  of  the  amount  (and  not  its 
enforcement) may not have been the intent of the Code. However, the 
same  was  deliberated  in  the  Committee  and  in  light  of  absence  of 
concrete  empirical  evidence  of  any  hardship  being  faced  by  any 
authority or court in this regard, the Committee agreed that it may not 
be prudent to provide explicit carve-outs from section 14 without on-
ground evidence, at this stage. The power of the Central Government 
under section 14(3) to notify transactions which may be exempt from 
the moratorium may be explored to address this issue on the basis of 
demonstrated hardship in the future.”274  

 

In  contrast  to  the  approach  adopted  by  the  Insolvency  Law  Committee,  the  US 

bankruptcy Law contains a clear exception saving any action (other than recovery) by 

(i)  any  governmental  unit;  or  (ii)  organization  established  under  the  Chemical 

Weapons Convention, from the moratorium which reads as follows,- 

“(4) under paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (6) of subsection (a) of this section, 
of the commencement or continuation of an action or proceeding by a 
governmental unit or any organization exercising authority under the 
Convention  on  the  Prohibition  of  the  Development,  Production, 
Stockpiling and Use of  Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction, 
opened for signature on January 13, 1993, to enforce such governmental 
unit’s  or  organization’s  police  and  regulatory  power,  including  the 
enforcement of a judgment other than a money judgment, obtained in 

                                                           
274 
Committee, 
<http://www.mca.gov.in/Ministry/pdf/ILRReport2603_03042018.pdf>. 

Insolvency 

Law 

Report 

of 

the 

 

pp. 

31-32, 

available 

at 

 
Page | 409  

 

 

an  action  or  proceeding  by  the  governmental  unit  to  enforce  such 
governmental unit’s or organization’s police or regulatory power.”275 

The US SEC has exercised its powers several times under this exception to ensure that 
defaulters do not take the bankruptcy route  to defeat the  enforcement  of  securities 

laws. The Court in SEC v Brennan276 explained the history behind the enactment of 

this exception and inter alia held as follows,- 

“As  we  have  explained,  the  purpose  of  this  exception  is  to  prevent  a 
debtor from "frustrating necessary governmental functions by seeking 
refuge in bankruptcy court." City of New York v. Exxon Corp., 932 F.2d 
1020, 1024 (2d Cir. 1991) (internal quotation marks omitted); see also 
S.REP. No. 95-989, at 52 (1978), U.S. Code Cong. Admin. News at 5787, 
5838;  H.R.  REP.  No. 95-595,  at  343  (1977), U.S.  Code  Cong.  Admin. 
News at 5963, 6299. Thus, "where a governmental unit is suing a debtor 
to  prevent  or  stop  violation  of  fraud,  environmental  protection, 
consumer  protection,  safety,  or  similar  police  or  regulatory  laws,  or 
attempting  to  fix  damages  for  violation  of  such  a  law,  the  action  or 
proceeding is not stayed under the automatic stay." H.R. REP. No. 95-
595, at 343, U.S. Code Cong. Admin. News at 6299; accord S.REP. No. 
95-989, at 52, U.S. Code Cong. Admin. News at 5838. 
 
In  the  present  case,  Brennan  concedes  that  the  SEC  obtained  the 
Repatriation Order in a proceeding to enforce its "police and regulatory 
power."  Cf.  SEC  v.  Towers  Fin.  Corp.,  205  B.R.  27,  29-31  (S.D.N.Y. 
1997) (holding that a civil enforcement action by the SEC against the 
debtor-defendant  fit  within  the  "governmental  unit"  exception  of  § 
362(b)(4));  Bilzerian  v.  SEC,  146  B.R.  871,  872-73  (M.D.Fla.  1992) 
(same);  3  COLLIER  ON  BANKRUPTCY  §  362.05[5][b][i],  at  362-63 
(5th ed. 2000) ("The police or regulatory exception has . . . been applied 
to  enforcement  actions  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission, 
including actions seeking disgorgement of illicit profits.").” 

 

Thus, a more explicit exception on the lines of the US bankruptcy law would lessen the 

litigation around the moratorium provision of the IBC to enable the determination of 

guilt  which  cannot  be  done  by  the  adjudicating  authority  and determination  of  the 

claims which need to be filed under the IBC.  

 

                                                           
275  Title 
<https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/11/362>. 
276 230 F.3d 65 (2d Cir. 2000), available at <https://casetext.com/case/sec-v-brennan>. 

11-US  Code,  Chapter 

Sub-Chapter 

IV, 

3, 

§ 

362 

(b) 

 

(4), 

available 

at 

 
Page | 410  

 

RECOMMENDATION: The following amendment may be considered in Section 14 of 
the IBC (and in Section 33, 81, 85, 101 and 124 of the IBC),- 

“(*)  The  order  of  moratorium  shall  not  affect  the  commencement  or 
continuation  of  an  action  or  proceeding  by  any  government  or  any 
authority  constituted  by  or  under  any  law  or  by  a  recognized  stock 
exchange and the enforcement of such government, authority or stock 
exchange’s regulatory power, including the enforcement of a judgment 
or order other than a money decree or recovery of any dues (other than 
recovery of monies directed to be disgorged  or refunded) obtained in 
such an action or proceeding.” 

 

 

Proceedings for recovery of monies due against assets of the debtor and 

‘assets in trust’: In view of the fore-going discussion it becomes clear that recovery 
proceedings against the ‘assets of’ the debtor in bankruptcy cannot lie. In such cases, 

it is appropriate to file a claim with the resolution professional. Thus, in cases where 

penalties  or  fees  have  to  be  recovered  by  the  Board,  once  the  claim  is  assessed  in 

appropriate  proceedings,  filing  a  claim  is  a  relatively  straight  forward  process.  The 

problem arises in cases where ‘assets in trust’ have to be recovered. In such cases, the 
regulator or the beneficiaries may not be aware of any particular asset which would 

correspond to such description. Complications may also arise where the ‘assets held in 

trust’ have been commingled  with the assets of  the debtor. In such cases, either  an 

application may be made before the Adjudicating Authority under the IBC (u/s 60 and 

179 of the IBC) or the NCLT under the Companies Act, 2013 (u/s 280 of the Companies 

Act, 2013) or an application for examination pro interesse suo may be appropriate in 

addition  to  the Berkley  Applegate  principle  so that  such  monies  are  identified  and 

handed over by the Insolvency Professional, as directed by the Adjudicating Authority, 

to the Recovery Officer under securities laws. In respect of third party assets, the non-
obstante provision contained in Section 238 of the IBC is of no avail, in this context 

the Supreme Court in Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) v Abhilash 

Lal & Ors.277 inter alia held as follows,- 

 "This court is of opinion that Section 238 could be of importance when 
the properties and assets are of a debtor and not when a third party like 
the MCGM is involved. Therefore, in the absence of approval in terms 
of Section 92 and 92A of the MMC Act, the adjudicating authority could 

                                                           
277 SC judgment dated 15.11.2019 in C.A. No. 6350 of 2019. 

 

 
Page | 411  

 

 

not have overridden MCGM’s objections and enabled the creation of a 
fresh interest in respect of its properties and lands.” 

 
Interim  Orders:  Since  the  IBC  does  not  have  any  particular  mechanism  for 

identification  of  ‘assets  held  in  trust’,  a  situation  may  arise  where  the  resolution 

professional  or  committee  of  creditors  may  knowingly  (by  refusing  to  recognise  an 

asset  as  held  in  trust)  or  unknowingly  authorise  its  use  while  the  debtor  is  being 

managed as a ‘going concern.’ This  can severely prejudice the interests of investors 
whose right to recover may get seriously compromised if the relevant assets are lost or 

co-mingled. In such cases, approaching the adjudicating authority itself may be a time 

consuming process. In this respect, the approach of the US SEC and Bankruptcy courts 

is enlightening. In SEC v Wyly278, the Court upheld the powers of the US SEC to issue 
a temporary freeze while the bankruptcy proceedings were ongoing, since such a freeze 

is meant only to safeguard assets and not meant for recovery. The Court inter alia held 

as follows,- 

“The SEC argues that Brennan is inapplicable here, as no final judgment 

has been entered. As such, the SEC contends that it cannot be seeking 

to enforce a money judgment, and is therefore acting in its police and 

regulatory  capacity.  Moreover,  the  SEC  argues  that  an  asset  freeze  is 

necessary  to  prevent  dissipation  of  the  assets,  as  no  third-party 

fiduciary has been appointed in the bankruptcy proceeding. The Wylys 
disagree, and assert that the SEC is seeking to control property of the 

bankruptcy  estate,  which  falls  within  the  exception  to  the  exception. 

Further, the Wylys contend that an asset freeze is unnecessary because 

all  property  of  the  bankruptcy  estate  is  under  the  control  and 

supervision of the bankruptcy judge. 

This  Court  has  jurisdiction  to  determine  whether  the  automatic  stay 

applies. Though the question is close, I conclude that the SEC is acting 

in its police and regulatory capacity, and thus the automatic stay does 

not apply. There are many similarities between this case and Brennan; 

                                                           
278 73 F. Supp. 3d 315 (S.D.N.Y. 2014), available at <https://casetext.com/case/sec-amp-exch-commn-v-wyly-3>. 
 
Page | 412  

 

 

 

however, two primary distinctions  allow for the entry of  a temporary 
asset freeze here. 

First, there has been no final judgment. Brennan explicitly drew the line 

at  entry  of  judgment,  and  explained  that  all  actions  taken  by  the 

government “up to the moment” when judgment is entered are actions 
within the government's police or regulatory capacity. The exception to 

the exception is only implicated after final judgment has been entered 

and the government is acting to “vindicate its own interest in collecting 

its judgment.” In Brennan, the SEC was seeking repatriation of offshore 

assets  for  the  purpose  of  enforcing  a  judgment.  There  is,  as  yet,  no 
judgment to be enforced here. The SEC is merely seeking an asset freeze 

in anticipation of a judgment. It is not seeking to repatriate any assets 

located  abroad.  Because  the  SEC  is  not  seeking  to  enforce  a  money 

judgment, it is therefore acting in its police and regulatory capacity. 
Second, the SEC is not seeking control over any asset. In Brennan, the 

SEC  sought  to repatriate offshore trusts. This involved “the return of 

assets transferred by Brennan so as to preserve them for the benefit of 

all potential claimants.” Though the court denied the SEC's request to 

repatriate—or  control—assets,  it  did  so  because it  concluded  that  the 

SEC  was  acting  to  preserve  its  claim  in  preparation  for  enforcing  a 

judgment  that  had  been  entered.  By  contrast,  no  asset  here  will  be 

modified  in  any  way.  The  SEC  seeks  to  preserve  the  status  quo  in 

anticipation of a final judgment. Preserving assets in anticipation of a 
judgment  is  not  equivalent  to  controlling  those  assets  in  an  effort  to 

enforce a judgment already entered. 

Therefore,  I  conclude  that  the  automatic  stay  does  not  apply  to  the 

SEC's  request  for  a  temporary  asset  freeze,  expedited  discovery, 

preservation of financial documents, and an accounting. 

... 

Having determined that the automatic stay does not apply, I conclude 

that  a  temporary  asset  freeze,  expedited  discovery,  preservation  of 

financial documents, and an accounting are warranted. With regard to 

the property that is part of the bankruptcy estate, no third party has yet 

 
Page | 413  

 

 

been  appointed  to  ensure that  no  assets  are  transferred  or  otherwise 
depleted. Therefore, Sam Wyly and Caroline Wyly, as beneficiary of the 

probate estate of Charles Wyly, remain in control of their assets. Though 

they are required to act as fiduciaries, this does not ensure that assets 

will be protected. The Wylys contend that subjecting domestic property 
to an asset freeze interferes with the bankruptcy process. However, once 

these assets are accounted for and under the jurisdiction and control of 

the Bankruptcy Court, the asset freeze order will be dissolved as to those 

assets. 

Further,  the  bankruptcy  proceeding  does  not  address  potential 
dissipation of offshore assets by third parties. As Sam Wyly appears to 

contest, contrary to the jury's verdict, that he has control or beneficial 

ownership of these assets, they may not be included in his bankruptcy 

estate.  Thus,  third  parties  could  potentially  transfer  or  deplete  these 
assets without an order in place that compels the Wylys to direct the 

protectors  and  trustees  of  all  IOM  trusts  to  refrain  from  taking  any 

action to dissipate foreign assets.” 

When dealing with specialised jurisdiction matters, the moratorium clauses under the 

IBC  and  the  Companies  Act,  2013  are  meant  to  stay  proceedings  in  the  nature  of 

recovery only. The Committee also notes that the application of interim orders against 

assets  should  be  for  a  limited  time  frame  and  till  the  filing  of  appropriate 

claim/proceedings  before  the  insolvency  professional/adjudicating  authority.  Once 
appropriate filings have been made, the further dealing in the assets would be subject 

to the relevant provisions of IBC/Companies Act, 2013. 

 

 

Settlement Proceedings: Section 14 of the IBC bars the initiation and continuation 

of proceedings ‘against’ the insolvent company. However, a settlement proceeding is 

initiated by the company itself and continued by the IRP. Further, the settlement is 

beneficial to a company since it removes the possibility of it being held in breach of 

law. 

 

 

 
Page | 414  

 

In this respect the Delhi High Court vide order dated 11.12.2017 in the matter of Power 
Grid Corporation of India v Jyoti Structures Ltd.279 inter alia held as follows,- 

“12.  The  learned  counsel  for  the  respondent  has  though  argued  that 
once  the  moratorium  comes  into  effect,  no  proceedings  against  the 
corporate debtor may continue. No doubt to the said proposition of law 
as stated above, but one need to see the nature of the proceedings; if 
such proceedings is against the corporate debtor or is in its favour. Stay 
of proceedings against an award in favour of the corporate debtor would 
rather be stalking the debtor‟s effort to recover its money and hence 
would not fall in the embargo of Section 14 (1) (a) of the Code. 
… 
14.  Hence  for  following  reasons  I  conclude  the  present  proceeding 
would not be hit by the embargo of Section 14(1)(a) viz.,  

(a) “proceedings” do not mean “all proceedings”; 
(b)  moratorium  under  section  14(1)(a)  of  the  code  is  intended  to 
prohibit debt recovery actions against the assets of corporate debtor;  
(c) continuation of proceedings under section 34 of the Arbitration 
Act which do not result in endangering, diminishing, dissipating or 
adversely  impacting  the  assets  of  corporate  debtor  are  not 
prohibited under section 14(1)(a) of the code;  
(d)  term  “including”  is  clarificatory  of  the  scope  and  ambit  of  the 
term “proceedings”; 
(e) the term “proceeding” would be restricted to the nature of action 
that follows it i.e. debt recovery action against assets of the corporate 
debtor;  
(f) the use of narrower term “against the corporate debtor” in section 
14(1)(a) as opposed to the wider phase “by or against the corporate 
debtor” used in section 33(5) of the code further makes it evident 
that  section  14(1)(a)  is  intended  to  have  restrictive  meaning  and 
applicability;  
(g)  the  Arbitration  Act  draws  a  distinction  between  proceedings 
under  section  34(  i.e.  objections  to  the  award)  and  under  section 
36(i.e.  the  enforceability  and  execution  of  the  award).  The 
proceedings under section 34 are a step prior to the execution of an 
award. Only after determination of objections under section 34, the 
party may move a step forward to execute such award and in case 
the  objections  are  settled  against  the  corporate  debtor,  its 
enforceability  against  the corporate  debtor  then  certainly shall  be 
covered by moratorium of section 14(1)(a). 

… 
16. Second limb of objection raised is once the moratorium is declared 
the decision to continue with the objections need to be taken only be the 
Resolution Professional, since per Section 17 of the Code from the date 

                                                           
279 
2017/YKH11122017OMPCOMM3972016.pdf>. 

Available 

at 

 

<http://lobis.nic.in/ddir/dhc/YKH/judgement/11-12-

 
Page | 415  

 

 

of  the  appointment  of  the  interim  resolution  professional,  the 
management of the affairs of the corporate debtor shall vests with the 
interim resolution professional and hence in the peculiar circumstances 
of  this  case  where  a  counter  claims  was  preferred  by  the  objector, 
though  rejected,  it  would  be  appropriate  if  the  interim  resolution 
profession be made aware of these proceedings and he consents to its 
continuation.” 

Hence the Committee is of the view that the settlement proceedings, being beneficial 

to the company and instituted by the company, can be proceeded ahead only if the 

company  is  represented  by  the  IRP.  Further,  in  view  of  Regulation  31  of  the  IBBI 

(Insolvency  Resolution  Process  for  Corporate  Persons)  Regulations,  2016  the 

settlement  charges  arrived  at  during  the  insolvency  resolution  process,  must  to  be 

approved by the Committee of Creditors.  

 

 

Other proceedings: There may be proceedings against the corporate debtor that do 

not financially affect any of the assets of the debtor. One such proceedings that may 
arise is on account of delisting. Where a company has defaulted in complying with the 

listing conditions, it is liable for delisting by the concerned stock exchange. In such 

cases, the company is given an opportunity for replying since the listing agreement is 

entered into between the company and the stock exchange. However, the shares that 

are being delisted though issued by the company belong to its share-holders and not 
the  exchange.  Thus,  delisting  is  not  a  proceeding  against  the  asset  of  the  debtor 

company  even  though  it  is  triggered  on  account  of  the  default  of  the  company. 

Recently, the NCLT in Roofit Industries Ltd. v BSE ltd. & Ors.280 has inter alia held as 

follows, - 

“12. ... If at all combined reading is given to the prohibition given under 
the said subsection, it appears it is a prohibition to proceed against the 
company in respect to the dues payable by the company, not in respect 
to  other  violations  under  various  enactments.  All  actions  envisaged 
there, are of same kind. There cannot be any omnibus applicability of 
prohibitions or restrictions given under any enactment, including this 
Code  as  well.  There  are  two  tests  to  be  looked  into,  one  is  strict 
application of prohibitory law, it can't be liberally and freely applied like 

NCLT 

order 

dated 

                                                           
280 
at 
<https://ibbi.gov.in//webadmin/pdf/order/2018/Jun/15th%20Nov%202017%20in%20the%20matter%20of%20R
oofit%20Industries%20Ltd.%20MA%20No.%20373-2017%20IN%20CP%20No.%201055-I&BP-2017_2018-
06-06%2010:55:36.pdf>. 

15.11.2017, 

available 

 

 
Page | 416  

 

 

any other beneficiary legislation, two is the doctrine of ejusdem generis, 
which is applicable to understand these prohibitions given in section 14 
(1) (a) of the Code, because this Code is basically a Code dealing with 
debts  payable  by  the  company,  therefore  what  all  prohibitions  and 
overriding effect speaking of under section 238 is to be conceived as an 
effect to be given in respect to the laws dealing with dues payable by the 
Company, but not to arrest the effect of all enactments working under 
respective domains. 
 
13. Companies are governed by various enactments, they have to run in 
compliance  of  laws  of  this  country,  and  it  can't  be  that  companies 
running under CIRP are free enough to flout all other law. It cannot be 
the intention of any enactment and it is in fact not so. 
 
14.  As  to  application  of  section  238  is  concerned,  that  non-obstante 
clause can be invoked only when any other law, dealing with the core 
issues this enactment dealt with, is inconsistent with the provisions of 
I&B Code, since the provisions of Securities Contract Regulations Rules 
of 1957/provisions in respect to the Listing of shares before Exchanges 
is nowhere connected to the dues payable by the company, it can't be 
said that action under Securities Contract Regulations Rules of 1957 is 
hit by either Moratorium under section 14 or under section 238 of the 
Code.  It  is  an  issue  in  relation  to  Investors  therefore,  such  an  issue 
cannot be construed as inconsistent with the provisions of I&B Code, 
therefore, this Bench is of the opinion that the action of National Stock 
Exchange  or  Bombay  Stock  Exchange  is  neither  connected  to  the 
prohibitions given under sec.14 of I&B Code nor inconsistent with the 
non-obstante clause given under 238 of I&B Code.” 

In  view  of  the  above,  proceedings  where  the  company  has  no  immediate  financial 

interest can continue inspite of the moratorium under the IBC. 

 

 

 

V.  DISCHARGE  FROM  CERTAIN  DEBTS  IN  CASE  OF  INDIVIDUAL  INSOLVENCY 

UNDER THE IBC. 

 
Unlike corporate insolvency which may result in liquidation in case resolution fails i.e. 

demise  of  its  separate  legal  existence,  in  cases  of  individual  insolvency,  where  the 

resolution fails; the debtor is declared bankrupt and discharged from his debts and his 

legal existence continues. There always exists a possibility that delinquents may use 

 

 
Page | 417  

 

bankruptcy law as a shelter from their legal responsibility and seek discharge orders 
to evade their liability under law, including securities laws. Hence, bankruptcy laws 

usually declare certain debts as “non-dischargeable debts.” Recently, the Ministry of 

Corporate  Affairs  re-constituted  the  Insolvency  Law  Committee  as  a  Standing 

Committee,281 to inter alia study the insolvency resolution and bankruptcy framework 
for individuals and partnership firms and make recommendations for its successful 

implementation.  Thus,  Part  III  of  the  IBC,  dealing  with  insolvency  resolution  and 

bankruptcy for individuals and partnership firms may be brought into operation soon. 

Hence, this concept assumes great significance under the securities laws, since in a 

majority of the cases, the recoveries are largely possible due to the personal liability 
imposed on promoters, directors and other individuals. Corporate assets are usually 

insufficient  on  account  of  being  siphoned  off.  Further,  certain  violations  such  as 

“insider trading” are usually done by individuals.  

 
Under  the  IBC,  “non-dischargeable  debts”  are  referred  to  as  ‘excluded  debt’  and 

defined u/s 79 (15) of the IBC as follows,- 

““excluded debt” means –  

(a) liability to pay fine imposed by a court or tribunal;  

(b)liability to pay damages for negligence, nuisance or breach of a 

statutory, contractual or other legal obligation;  

(c) liability to pay maintenance to any person under any law for 

the time being in force;  

(d) liability in relation to a student loan;  
(e) any other debt as may be prescribed;” 

 

Since the Board does not impose ‘fines’ or ‘damages’, it is possible that securities laws 

defaulters may misuse the IBC to evade their liabilities under the securities laws. The 

Committee notes the provisions of US Code: Section 523 (a) (3) (7)282 and 523(a) (19) 

Standing 

for 

                                                           
281 See Ministry of Corporate Affairs’ Order dated 06.03.2019 Re-constituting the Insolvency Law Committee as 
a 
at 
<http://www.mca.gov.in/Ministry/pdf/ILCOrder_11032019.pdf>. 
282 See In re Telsey,  144 B.R. 563, 565 (Bankr.  S.D. Fla. 1992),  available at <https://casetext.com/case/in-re-
telsey>, inter alia holding that,- 

implementation 

Committee 

review 

of 

IBC, 

available 

of 

the 

“The district court's disgorgement order in this case serves the purpose of deterrence. See, e.g., S.E.C. v. 
First City Financial Corp., 890 F.2d 1215, 1230 (D.C. Cir. 1989); Rowe v. Maremont Corp., 850 F.2d 
1226, 1241 (7th Cir. 1988); S.E.C. v. Blatt, 583 F.2d 1325, 1335 (5th Cir. 1978); S.E.C. v. Blavin, 760 
 
Page | 418  

 

 

(A) & (B) of sub-chapter II, Chapter 5, Title 11283 where suitable provisions are made 
for various non-dischargeable debts, including those in relation to securities laws and 

court orders and suggests that SEBI seek the benefit of inclusion of the following in 

‘excluded debt’ u/s 79 (15) of the IBC,- 

  
“(*) Debt due, other than fees due, under any law administered by the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India; 

  

 

(*) Any debt which results from any court or quasi-judicial order for any 

damages, fine, penalty, restitutionary payment, including disgorgement 
or forfeiture, or other payment owed by the debtor; 

 

 

(*)  Debt  due  under  any  other  law  relating  to  fraud,  deceit  or 

manipulation  in connection with the purchase or sale of any  security 
and the creation or redemption of any deposit.” 

 

 

RECOMMENDATION: To sum up the discussion, this Committee is of the view that in 

order  to  protect  the  interest  of  securities  markets  investors,  SEBI  may  take  up  the 

issues discussed in this Report with the IBBI and the Ministry of Corporate Affairs to 

initiate necessary steps including amendments, if any, to the IBC and the regulations 

issued thereunder to inter alia ensure that,- 

 

a.  A  well-defined  procedure  is  available  for  dealing  with  applications  for 

examination  pro interesse suo in respect of  claims relating to ‘assets held  in 

trust’;  

b.  A well-defined procedure is available for identification of ‘assets held in trust’ 

(in specie or in converted or co-mingled form) by the insolvency professional at 

the time of his appointment, and costs for such identification; 

                                                           

F.2d 706, 713 (6th Cir. 1985); S.E.C. v. Manor Nursing Centers, 458 F.2d 1082, 1104 (2nd Cir. 1972). 
This Court finds the deterrence purpose of the disgorgement order sufficiently penal to characterize the 
resulting debt as a "fine, penalty, or forfeiture" within the meaning of § 523(a)(7).” 

283 Available at <https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/11/523>. 

 

 
Page | 419  

 

c.  A well-defined procedure is available dealing with claims of third parties and 

determining their bona fides and priority vis-à-vis trust assets; 

d.  Adjudicating  authorities  be  explicitly  empowered  to  apply  the  Berkeley 

Applegate principle; 

e.  Exemptions  from  moratorium  may  be  expressly  recognized  in  respect  of 
‘assessment’ proceedings, including ‘interim orders’ issued before completion 

of assessment of liability under any statute;  

f.  A well-defined procedure may be provided for distribution of trust assets by the 

insolvency professional, and costs for such identification; and 

g.  The list of non-dischargeable debts under the IBC may be expanded to ensure 
that defaulters of securities laws do not use individual bankruptcy as a refuge 

from legal liability.  

 

 
VI. 

 

IMPLICATIONS  OF  INSOLVENCY  AND  BANKRUPTCY  CODE  (AMENDMENT) 

ORDINANCE, 2019. 

Insolvency  and  Bankruptcy  Code  (Amendment)  Ordinance,  2019  (‘IBC  Ordinance’) 

was  promulgated  by  the  President  of  India  on  December  28,  2019  to  amend  the 

Insolvency  and  Bankruptcy  Code,  2016.  Section  32A  has  been  inserted  in  IBC  to 

provide  immunity  against  prosecution  to  a  corporate  debtor  and  prevent  action 

against the property of such corporate debtor subject to certain conditions mentioned 

therein.  This  provision  may  have  wide  ranging  impact  on  various  enforcement 
proceedings undertaken by SEBI, hence it merits a detailed analysis. 

 

Section 32A (1) is a non-obstante provision under which a corporate debtor may seek 

immunity from prosecution for an offence committed prior to the commencement of 

the corporate insolvency resolution process only if it meets following criteria: 

i. 

resolution  plan  for  such  corporate  debtor  has  been  approved  by  the 

Adjudicating Authority under section 31; 

ii. 

such resolution plan results in the change in the management or control 

of the corporate debtor to a person who was not: 

 

 
Page | 420  

 

 

a.  a  promoter  or  in  the  management  or  control  of  the  corporate 

debtor or a related party of such a person; or 

b.  a person with regard to whom the relevant investigating authority 

has, on the basis of material in its possession, reason to believe 

that  he  had  abetted  or  conspired  for  the  commission  of  the 
offence, and has submitted or filed a report or a complaint to the 

relevant statutory authority or Court; 

iii. 

prosecution  instituted  during  the  corporate  insolvency  resolution 

process against such corporate debtor stands discharged from the date 

of approval of the resolution plan; 
 

iv. 

such  immunity  will  not  extend  to  any  person,  including  a  designated 

partner or an officer in default, 

a.  who  was  in  any  manner  in  charge  of,  or  responsible  to  the 
corporate debtor for the conduct of its business or associated with 

the corporate debtor in any manner, and  

b.  who was directly or indirectly involved in the commission of such 

offence  as  per  the  report  submitted  or  complaint  filed  by  the 

investigating authority  

Section 32A (2) bars action against the property of a corporate debtor in relation to an 

offence committed prior to the commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution 

process of the corporate debtor if it meets the following criteria: 

i. 

such  property  must  be  covered  under  a  resolution  plan  approved  by  the 

Adjudicating Authority under section 31;  

ii. 

such resolution must result in: 

a.  change in control of the corporate debtor to a person, or  

b.  sale of liquidation assets under the provisions of Chapter III of Part II of 

IBC to a person,  

who was not: 

a.  a promoter or in the management or control of the corporate debtor or a 

related party of such a person; or 

 

 
Page | 421  

 

b.  a person with regard to whom the relevant investigating authority has, 
on the basis of material in its possession, reason to believe that he had 

abetted  or  conspired  for  the  commission  of  the  offence,  and  has 

submitted  or  filed  a  report  or  a  complaint  to  the  relevant  statutory 

authority or Court; 

iii. 

an action  against  the  property includes the  attachment, seizure, retention or 

confiscation  of  such  property  under  such  law  as  may  be  applicable  to  the 

corporate debtor; 

iv. 

such bar on action against the property shall not extend to any person: 

a.  other than the corporate debtor or  
b.  a person who has acquired such property through corporate insolvency 

resolution process or liquidation process. 

Section 32A (3) states that subject to subsection (1) and (2) of Section 32A, any person 

including  a  corporate  debtor  shall  extend  all  assistance  and  co-operation  to  any 
authority  investigating  an  offence  committed  prior  to  the  commencement  of  the 

corporate insolvency resolution process. 

 

Implications on SEBI Proceedings 

 

Section  32A  which  provides  immunity  to  the  corporate  debtor  refers  to  the  term 

‘offence’ but does not define its scope and extent. The term 'offence' has been defined 

in the General  Clauses  Act (No. 10 of 1897) as meaning  "any act or omission made 

punishable by any law for the time being in force”. However, in the case of Standard 
Chartered  Bank  vs.  Directorate  of  Enforcement  (Appeal  (civil)  1748  of  1999  of 

Supreme Court), the Supreme court gave a wider interpretation to meaning of the term 

‘offence’ and held that the expression 'offence' is not indicative of the expression 'being 

confined to a criminal offence alone'. Para 30 of the said judgement is quoted below 

for reference: 

 

 

“30.  It  is  true  that  the  entire  penalty  that  may  be  imposed  on 

adjudication,  is  capable  of  being  recovered  from  the  company 

itself. But that does not mean that it cannot be recovered from the 

officer incharge of the company or those who connived at or were 

 
Page | 422  

 

instrumental in the contravention of the provisions of the Act by 
the company. Once the ingredient of the offence is contravention 

of the provisions of the Act and the consequences flowing from the 

contravention is to make that person including a company liable 

for penalty as well as for prosecution, there does not appear to be 
any justification in confining the scope of the Section 68 only to 

prosecutions under Section 56 of the [FERA] Act. We have earlier 

indicated  that  use  of  the  expression  'offence'  in  the  marginal 

heading of Section 68 [of FERA] is not indicative of the expression 

'being confined to a criminal offence alone' because an offence in 
the  context  of  the  Act  is  really  a  contravention  of  any  of  the 

provisions  of  the  [FERA]  Act  referred  to  in  Section  50  and  in 

Section 56 of the [FERA] Act.” 

 
Section 24 of the SEBI Act deals with offences and states as follows: 

 

“Offences.  

24.  (1)  Without  prejudice  to  any  award  of  penalty  by  the 

adjudicating  officer  or  the  Board  under  this  Act,  if  any  person 

contravenes or attempts to contravene or abets the contravention 

of the provisions of this Act or of any rules or regulations made 

thereunder, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term 

which may extend to ten years, or with fine, which may extend to 
twenty-five crore rupees or with both.” 

 

Thus, SEBI Act,1992 explicitly makes it an offence to contravene any of the provisions 

of the Act. In light of the interpretation of the term ‘offence’ by the Supreme Court in 

Standard Chartered judgment (referred above), any contravention of SEBI Act by a 

corporate debtor may be treated as an offence regardless of whether any prosecution 

has been initiated by SEBI against the violator or not. Hence any violation of securities 

laws committed by a corporate debtor prior to CIRP stands absolved and SEBI may be 

unable to take necessary actions against any property of such corporate debtor that 

forms part of the resolution plan, subject to conditions of section 32A being fulfilled. 

 

 
Page | 423  

 

 
It is also seen that due to lack of specificity in Section 32A (2) of the IBC, it is not clear 

whether the bar on action against property of corporate debtor is applicable in criminal 

proceedings only or both civil and criminal proceedings. If the latter view is taken, it 

implies that SEBI will be unable to recover even penalty for violation of securities laws 
which it can otherwise recover after moratorium is revoked. 

 

Recommendation:  The  Committee  recommends  insertion  of  the  following 

provision after sub-section (3) of section 32A of IBC, 

“(4) Nothing in this section shall apply to an action for disgorgement or 
refund under securities laws.” 

 

 

************ 

 

 
Page | 424  

