1

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

Report of K.B. Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

Executive Summary

I.

Why venture capital

The venture capital industry in India is still at a nascent stage. With a view to promote
innovation, enterprise and conversion of scientific technology and knowledge based ideas
into  commercial  production,  it  is  very  important  to  promote  venture  capital  activity  in
India. India’s recent success story in the area of information technology has shown that
there is a tremendous potential for growth of knowledge based industries. This potential
is  not  only  confined  to  information  technology  but  is  equally  relevant  in  several  areas
such  as  bio-technology,  pharmaceuticals  and  drugs,  agriculture,  food  processing,
telecommunications, services, etc. Given the inherent strength by way of its skilled and
cost  competitive  manpower,  technology,  research  and  entrepreneurship,  with  proper
environment  and  policy  support,  India  can  achieve  rapid  economic  growth  and
competitive global strength in a sustainable  manner.

A  flourishing  venture  capital  industry  in  India  will  fill  the  gap  between  the  capital
requirements  of    technology  and  knowledge  based  startup  enterprises  and  funding
available from traditional institutional lenders such as banks.   The gap exists because
such startups are necessarily based on intangible assets such as human capital and on a
technology-enabled mission, often with the hope of changing the world.   Very often, they
use technology developed in university and government research laboratories that would
otherwise  not  be  converted  to  commercial  use.      However,  from  the  viewpoint  of  a
traditional banker, they have neither physical assets nor a low-risk business plan.     Not
surprisingly, companies such as Apple, Exodus, Hotmail and Yahoo, to mention a few of
the  many  successful  multinational  venture-capital  funded  companies,  initially  failed  to
get capital as startups when  they approached traditional lenders.   However, they were
able to obtain finance from independently managed venture capital funds that focus on
equity  or  equity-linked  investments  in  privately  held,  high-growth  companies.        Along
with this finance came smart advice, hand-on management support and other skills that
helped the entrepreneurial vision to be converted to marketable products.

Beginning with a consideration of the wide role of venture capital to encompass not just
information technology, but all high-growth technology and knowledge-based
enterprises, the endeavor of the Committee has been to make recommendations that will
facilitate the growth of a vibrant venture capital industry in India.  The report examines
(1) the vision for venture capital (2) strategies for its growth  and (3) how to bridge the
gap between traditional means of  finance and the capital needs of high growth startups.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

1

2

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

II.

Critical factors for success of venture capital industry:

While making the recommendations the Committee felt that the following factors are
critical for the success of the VC industry in India:

(A)

(B) 

(D) 

(E)  

The  regulatory,  tax  and  legal  environment  should  play  an  enabling  role.
Internationally,  venture  funds  have  evolved  in  an  atmosphere  of  structural
flexibility, fiscal neutrality and operational adaptability.
Resource  raising,  investment,  management  and  exit  should  be  as  simple  and
flexible as needed and driven by global trends
(C) 
Venture  capital  should  become  an  institutionalized  industry  that
protects  investors  and  investee  firms,  operating  in  an  environment  suitable  for
raising  the  large  amounts  of  risk  capital  needed  and  for  spurring  innovation
through startup firms in a wide range of high growth areas.
In view of increasing global  integration and mobility of capital it is important
that Indian venture capital funds as well as venture finance enterprises are able
to have global exposure and investment opportunities.
Infrastructure  in  the  form  of  incubators  and  R&D  need  to  be  promoted  using
Government support and private management as has successfully been done by
countries  such  as  the  US,  Israel  and  Taiwan.  This  is  necessary  for  faster
conversion of R & D and technological innovation into commercial products.

Recommendations:

1. 

Multiplicity of regulations – need for harmonisation and nodal Regulator:
Presently there are three set of  Regulations dealing with venture capital activity
i.e.  SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Regulations)  1996,  Guidelines  for  Overseas  Venture
Capital Investments issued by Department of Economic Affairs in the MOF in the
year 1995 and CBDT Guidelines for Venture Capital Companies in 1995 which
was modified in 1999. The need is to consolidate and substitute all these with one
single  regulation  of  SEBI  to  provide  for  uniformity,  hassle  free  single  window
clearance. There is already a pattern available in this regard; the mutual funds
have only one set of regulations and once a mutual fund is registered with SEBI,
the  tax  exemption  by  CBDT  and  inflow  of  funds  from  abroad  is  available
automatically.    Similarly,  in  the  case  of  FIIs,  tax  benefits  and  foreign
inflows/outflows  are  automatically  available  once  these  entities  are  registered
with  SEBI.  Therefore,  SEBI  should  be  the  nodal  regulator  for  VCFs  to  provide
uniform, hassle free, single window regulatory framework. On the pattern of FIIs,
Foreign Ventue Capital Investors (FVCIs) also need to  be registered with SEBI.

2.  Tax pass through for Venture Capital Funds:

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

2

3

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

VCFs are a  dedicated pool of capital and therefore operates in fiscal neutrality
and are treated as pass through vehicles. In any case, the investors of VCFs are
subjected  to  tax.  Similarly,  the  investee  companies  pay  taxes  on  their  earnings.
There  is  a  well  established  successful  precedent  in  the  case  of  Mutual  Funds
which  once  registered  with  SEBI  are  automatically  entitled  to  tax  exemption  at
pool level. It is an established principle that taxation should be only at one level
and therefore taxation at the level of VCFs as well as investors amount to double
taxation.  Since  like  mutual  funds  VCF  is  also  a  pool  of  capital  of  investors,  it
needs to be treated as a tax pass through.  Once registered with SEBI, it should be
entitled to automatic tax pass through at the pool level while maintaining taxation
at the investor level without any other requirement under Income Tax Act.

3.

Mobilisation of Global and Domestic resources:

(A) 

Foreign Venture Capital Investors (FVCIs):

investment 

investors  can  make  direct 

Presently,  FIIs  registered  with  SEBI  can  freely  invest  and  disinvest
without 
taking  FIPB/RBI  approvals.  This  has  brought  positive
investments  of  more  than    US  $10  billion.  At  present,  foreign  venture
capital 
in  venture  capital
undertakings or through a domestic venture capital fund by taking FIPB /
RBI approvals.   This investment being long term and in the nature of risk
finance  for  start-up  enterprises,  needs  to    be  encouraged.    Therefore,
atleast on par with FIIs, FVCIs should be registered with SEBI and having
once  registered,  they  should  have  the  same  facility  of  hassle  free
investments and disinvestments without any requirement for approval from
FIPB / RBI. This is in line with the present policy of automatic approvals
followed  by  the  Government.  Further,  generally  foreign  investors  invest
through the Mauritius-route and do not pay tax in India under a tax treaty.
FVCIs  therefore  should  be  provided  tax  exemption.  This  provision    will
put all FVCIs, whether investing through the Mauritius route or not, on
the same footing.  This will help the development of a vibrant India-based
venture capital industry with the advantage of best international practices,
thus enabling a jump-starting of the process of innovation.

The hassle free entry of such FVCIs on the pattern of FIIs is even more
necessary because of the following factors :

(i) 

(ii) 

Venture capital is a high risk area. In out of 10 projects, 8 either
fails or yield negligible returns. It is therefore in the interest of the
country that FVCIs bear such a risk.
For venture capital activity, high capitalisation of venture capital
companies  is  essential  to  withstand  the  losses  in  80%  of  the
projects. In India, we do not have such strong companies.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

3

4

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

(iii) 

The  FVCIs  are  also  more  experienced  in  providing  the  needed
managerial expertise and other supports.

(B) 

Augmenting the Domestic Pool of Resources:

The present pool of funds available for venture capital is very limited and
is  predominantly contributed by foreign funds to the extent of 80 percent.
The pool of domestic venture capital needs to be augmented by increasing
the  list  of  sophisticated  institutional  investors  permitted  to  invest  in
venture  capital  funds.        This  should  include  banks,  mutual  funds  and
insurance  companies  upto  prudential  limits.      Later,  as  expertise  grows
and  the  venture  capital  industry  matures,  other  institutional  investors,
such  as  pension  funds,  should  also  be  permitted.  The  venture  capital
funding is high-risk investment  and should be restricted to sophisticated
investors.   However, investing in venture capital funds can be  a valuable
return-enhancing tool for such investors while the increase in risk at the
portfolio level would be minimal.   Internationally, over 50% of venture
capital comes from pension funds, banks, mutual funds, insurance funds
and charitable institutions.

4. 

Flexibility in Investment and Exit:

(A) 

(B) 

Allowing multiple flexible structures:
Eligibility  for  registration  as  venture  capital  funds  should  be  neutral  to
firm structure. The government should consider creating new structures,
such  as  limited  partnerships,  limited  liability  partnerships  and  limited
liability corporations. At present, venture capital funds can be structured
as trusts or companies in order to be eligible for registration with SEBI.
Internationally,  limited  partnerships,  Limited  Liability  Partnership  and
limited  liability  corporations  have  provided  the  necessary  flexibility  in
risk-sharing, compensation arrangements amongst investors and tax pass
through.  Therefore,  these  structures  are  commonly  used  and  widely
accepted globally specially in USA. Hence, it is necessary to provide for
alternative eligible structures.

Flexibility in the matter of investment ceiling and sectoral restrictions:
70%  of  a  venture  capital  fund’s  investible  funds  must  be  invested  in
unlisted equity or equity-linked instruments, while the rest may be invested
in other instruments.  Though sectoral restrictions for investment by VCFs
are  not  consistent  with  the  very  concept  of  venture  funding,  certain
restrictions could be put by specifying a negative list which could include
areas such as  finance companies, real estate, gold-finance, activities not
legally permitted and any other sectors which could be notified by SEBI in
consultation  with  the  Government.    Investments  by  VCFs  in  associated

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

4

5

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

companies should also not be permitted.  Further, not more than 25% of a
fund’s corpus may be invested in a single firm. The investment ceiling has
been recommended in order to increase focus on equity or equity-linked
instruments of unlisted startup companies.   As the venture capital industry
matures,  investors  in  venture  capital  funds  will  set  their  own  prudential
restrictions.

( C)

Changes in buy back requirements for unlisted securities:
A  venture  capital  fund  incorporated  as  a  company/  venture  capital
undertaking  should    be  allowed  to  buyback  upto  100%  of  its  paid  up
capital  out  of    the  sale  proceeds  of  investments  and    assets  and  not
necessarily    out  of  its  free  reserves  and  share  premium  account  or
proceeds  of  fresh  issue.  Such  purchases  will  be  exempt  from  the  SEBI
takeover code.   A venture-financed undertaking will be allowed to make
an issue of capital within 6 months of buying back its own shares instead
of 24 months as at present. Further, negotiated deals may be permitted in
Unlisted securities where one of the parties to the transaction is VCF.

(D)      Relaxation in IPO norms:

The IPO norms of 3 year track record or the project being funded by the
banks or financial institutions should be relaxed to include the companies
funded  by  the  registered  VCFs  also.  The  issuer  company  may  float  IPO
without having three years track record if the project cost to the extent of
10%  is  funded  by  the  registered  VCF.  Venture  capital  holding  however
shall be subject to lock in period of one year. Further, when shares are
acquired by VCF in a preferential allotment after listing or as part of firm
allotment in an IPO, the same shall be subject to lock in for a period of
one year. Those companies which are funded by Venture capitalists and
their securities are listed on the stock exchanges outside the country, these
companies  should  be  permitted  to  list  their  shares  on  the  Indian  stock
exchanges.

(E)

(F)

Relaxation in Takeover Code:
The venture capital fund while exercising its call or put option as per the
terms of agreement should be exempt from applicability of takeover code
and 1969 circular under section 16 of SC(R)A issued by the Government
of India.

Issue  of  Shares  with  Differential  Right  with  regard  to  voting  and
dividend:
In  order  to  facilitate  investment  by  VCF  in  new  enterprises,  the
Companies Act may be amended so as to permit issue of shares by unlisted
public  companies  with  a  differential  right  in  regard  to  voting  and
dividend. Such a flexibility already exists under the Indian Companies Act

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

5

6

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

in  the  case  of  private  companies  which  are  not  subsidiaries  of  public
limited companies.

(G)  QIB  Market  for  unlisted  securities:    A  market  for  trading  in  unlisted

securities by QIBs be developed.

(H)  NOC Requirement : In the case of transfer of securities by FVCI to any
other  person,  the  RBI  requirement  of  obtaining  NOC  from  joint  venture
partner or other shareholders should be dispensed with.

(I) 

RBI  Pricing  Norms:  At  present,  investment/disinvestment  by  FVCI  is
subject  to  approval  of  pricing  by  RBI    which  curtails  operational
flexibility and needs to be dispensed with.

5. 

Global integration and opportunities:

(A) 

(B)  

Incentives for Employees: The limits for overseas investment  by Indian
Resident Employees under the Employee Stock Option Scheme in a foreign
company  should  be  raised  from  present  ceilings  of    US$10,000  over  5
years, and US$50,000 over 5 years for employees of software companies
in  their  ADRs/GDRs,  to  a  common  ceiling  of  US$100,000  over  5  years.
Foreign  employees  of  an  Indian  company  may  invest  in  the  Indian
company to a ceiling of US$100,000 over 5 years.

Incentives  for  Shareholders:    The  shareholders  of  an  Indian  company
that has venture capital funding and is  desirous of swapping its shares
with that of a foreign company should be permitted to do so.   Similarly,  if
an Indian company  having  venture funding and is desirous of issuing an
ADR/GDR,  venture capital shareholders (holding saleable stock) of the
domestic  company  and  desirous  of  disinvesting  their  shares  through  the
ADR/GDR  should  be  permitted  to  do  so.  Internationally,  70%  of
successful startups are acquired through a stock-swap transaction rather
than being purchased for cash or going public through an IPO.    Such
flexibility  should  be  available  for  Indian  startups  as  well.      Similarly,
shareholders  can  take  advantage  of  the  higher  valuations  in  overseas
markets while divesting  their holdings.

(C)

Global  investment  opportunity  for  Domestic  Venture  Capital  Funds
(DVCF):    DVCFs  should    be  permitted  to  invest  higher  of  25%  of  the
fund’s corpus or US $10 million or to the extent of foreign contribution in
the  fund’s  corpus  in  unlisted  equity    or  equity-linked  investments  of  a
foreign company.  Such investments will fall within the overall ceiling of
70% of the fund’s corpus. This will allow DVCFs to invest in synergistic

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

6

7

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

startups  offshore  and  also  provide  them  with  global  management
exposure.

6. 

7. 

Infrastructure and R&D :
Infrastructure development needs to be prioritized using government support and
private management of capital through programmes similar to the Small Business
Investment Companies in the United States, promoting  incubators and increasing
university and research laboratory linkages with venture-financed startup firms.
This would spur technological innovation and faster conversion of research into
commercial products.

Self Regulatory Organisation (SRO):
A strong SRO should be encouraged for evolution of standard practices, code of
conduct, creating awareness by dissemination of information about the industry.

Implementation  of  these  recommendations  would  lead  to  creation  of  an  enabling
regulatory  and  institutional  environment  to  facilitate  faster  growth  of  venture  capital
industry  in  the  country.    Apart  from  increasing  the    domestic  pool  of  venture  capital,
around US$ 10 billion are expected to be brought in by offshore investors over 3/5 years
on conservative estimates. This would in turn lead to increase in the value of products
and services adding upto US$100 billion to GDP by 2005.  Venture supported enterprises
would convert into quality IPOs providing over all benefit and protection to the investors.
Additionally,  judging  from  the  global  experience,  this  will  result  into  substantial  and
sustainable employment generation of  around 3 million jobs in skilled sector alone over
next five years. Spin off effect of such activity would create other support services and
further  employment.    This  can  put  India  on  a  path  of  rapid  economic  growth  and  a
position of strength in global economy.

*******

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

7

8

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

REPORT OF K B CHANDRASEKHAR COMMITTEE

ON VENTURE CAPITAL

1.0

PREFACE

1.1

1.2

Technology and knowledge based ideas will drive the global economy in the 21st
century.  India’s  recent  success  story  in  the  area  of  information  technology  has
shown  that  there  is  a  tremendous  potential  for  the  growth  of  knowledge  based
industries.    This  potential  is  not  only  confined  to  information  technology  but  is
equally relevant in several areas such as bio-technology, pharmaceuticals, media
and entertainment, agriculture and food processing, telecommunication and other
services. Given the inherent strength by way of its human capital, technical skills,
cost competitive manpower, research and  entrepreneurship, India can unleash a
revolution  of  wealth  creation  leading  to  employment  generation  and  rapid
economic  growth  in  a  sustainable  manner.    What  is  needed  is  risk  finance  and
venture capital environment which can leverage innovation, promote technology
and harness knowledge based ideas.

in  India.  Entrepreneurs  have 

In the absence of an organised venture capital industry, individual investors and
development  financial  institutions  have  hitherto  played  the  role  of  venture
capitalists 
largely  depended  upon  private
placements,  public offerings and lending by the financial institutions. In 1973 a
committee on Development of Small and Medium Enterprises highlighted the need
to  foster  venture  capital  as  a  source  of  funding  new  entrepreneurs  and
technology.  Thereafter  some  public  sector  funds  were  set-up  but  the  activity  of
venture  capital  did  not  gather  momentum  as  the  thrust  was  on  high-technology
projects funded on a purely financial rather than a holistic basis. Later, a study
was  undertaken  by  the  World  Bank  to  examine  the  possibility  of  developing
venture  capital  in  the  private  sector,  based  on  which  the  Government  of  India
took  a  policy  initiative  and  announced  guidelines  for  venture  capital  funds
(VCFs) in India in 1988. However, these guidelines restricted setting up of VCFs
by the banks or the financial institutions only.  Internationally, the trend favoured
venture  capital  being  supplied  by  smaller-scale,  entrepreneurial  venture
financiers willing to take high risk in the expectation of high returns, a trend that
has continued in this decade.

1.3

Thereafter,  the  Government  of  India  issued  guidelines  in  September  1995  for
overseas  venture  capital  investment  in  India.  For  tax-exemption  purposes,
guidelines  were  issued  by  the  Central  Board  of  Direct  Taxes  (CBDT)  and  the
investments and flow of foreign currency into and out of India is governed by the
Reserve Bank of India (RBI).  Further, as a part of its mandate to regulate and to

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

8

9

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

develop  the  Indian  capital  markets,  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India
(SEBI) framed  SEBI (Venture Capital Funds) Regulations, 1996.

1.4

1.5

Pursuant  to  the  regulatory  framework  mentioned  above,  some  domestic  VCFs
were registered with SEBI.  Some overseas investment has also come through the
Mauritius  route.    However,  the  venture  capital  industry  understood  globally  as
“independently  managed,  dedicated  pools  of  capital  that  focus  on  equity  or
equity-linked  investments  in  privately  held,  high-growth  companies”  (“The
Venture  Capital  Cycle”, Gompers  and  Lerner,  1999)  is  relatively  in  a  nascent
stage in India.  Figures from the Indian Venture Capital Association (IVCA) show
that, till 1998, around Rs.30 billion had been committed by domestic VCFs and
offshore  funds  which  are  members  of  IVCA  [Not  all  overseas  venture  investors
and domestic funds are members of the IVCA.]  Figures available from private
sources  indicate  that  overall  funds  committed  are  around  US$  1.3  billion.
Investible funds are less than 50% of the committed funds and actual investments
are lower still. At the same time, due to economic liberalization and increasing
global outlook in India, there is increased awareness and interest of domestic as
well as foreign investors in venture capital.  While only 8 domestic VCFs  were
registered with SEBI during 1996-1998, an additional 13 funds have already been
registered  in  1999.  Institutional  interest  is  growing  and  foreign  venture
investments  are  also  on  the  increase.  Given  the  proper  environment  and  policy
support,  there is tremendous potential for venture capital activity in India.

SEBI initiated interaction with industry participants and experts in early 1999 to
identify the key areas critical for the development of this industry in India. The
Finance Minister, in his 1999 budget speech had announced that “for  boosting
high-tech sectors and supporting first generation entrepreneurs, there is an acute
need for higher investment in venture capital activities.”  He also announced that
the guidelines for registration of venture capital activity with the Central Board of
Direct Taxes would be harmonized with those for registration with the Securities
and Exchange Board of India. SEBI, decided to set up a committee on Venture
Capital to identify the impediments and suggest suitable measures to facilitate the
growth of venture capital activity in India. Keeping in view the need for a global
perspective it was decided to associate Indian entrepreneurs from Silicon Valley
in the committee.  The committee is headed by K.B. Chandrasekhar, Chairman,
Exodus  Communications  Inc.,  California,  USA  and  consist  of 
industry
participants, professionals and the representatives from financial institutions and
RBI.  The list of the committee members is given in the Annexure –I.

1.6

The setting up of this committee was primarily motivated by the need to play a
facilitating role in tune with the mandate of SEBI, to regulate as well as develop
the market. The first meeting of the Committee took place on August 5, 1999 and
followed  by  further  deliberations  by  the    Working  Groups  formed  by  the
committee  to  examine  the  issues  related  to  Structure  and  Fund  Raising,

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

9

10

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

Investment  Process,  Exit  and  Vision  for  the  Venture  Capital  Industry  in  India.
The draft recommendations of the committee were formulated in the meeting of
the  committee  held  on  December  8,  1999.    The  draft  recommendations  were
released for public comments and after considering the feed back, the report was
finalised in the meeting of the Committee held on January 8, 2000.

2.0

2.1

2.2

OBJECTIVES AND VISION FOR VENTURE CAPITAL IN INDIA

Venture Capital funding is different from traditional sources of financing. Venture
capitalists finance innovation and ideas which have potential for high growth but
with  inherent  uncertainties.  This  makes  it  a  high-risk,  high  return  investment.
Apart  from  finance,  venture  capitalists  provide  networking,  management  and
marketing  support  as  well.  In  the  broadest  sense,  therefore,  venture  capital
connotes risk finance as well as managerial support.  In the global venture capital
industry,  investors  and  investee  firms  work  together  closely  in  an  enabling
environment  that    allows  entrepreneurs  to  focus  on  value  creating  ideas  and
venture capitalists to drive the industry through ownership of the levers of control
in  return  for  the  provision  of  capital,  skills,  information  and  complementary
resources. This very blend of risk financing and hand holding of entrepreneurs by
venture  capitalists  creates  an  environment  particularly  suitable  for  knowledge
and technology based enterprises.

Scientific, technology and knowledge based ideas properly supported by venture
capital can be propelled into a powerful engine of economic growth and wealth
creation in a sustainable manner. In various developed and developing economies
venture  capital  has  played  a  significant  developmental  role.  India,  along  with
Israel,  Taiwan  and  the  United  States,  is  recognized  for  its  globally  competitive
high technology and human capital. The success India has achieved particularly
in software and information technology of success against several odds such as
inadequate  infrastructure,  expensive  hardware,  restricted  access  to  foreign
resources and limited domestic demand, is a pointer to the hidden potential it has
in  the  field  of  knowledge  and  technology  based  industry.  India  has  the  second
largest English speaking scientific and technical manpower in the world. Some of
the  management  (IIMs)  and  technology  institutes  (IITs)  are  globally  known  as
centres  of  excellence.  Every  year  over  200,000    engineers  graduate  from
Government and private-run engineering colleges. Many also specialise through
diploma courses in computers and other technical areas. Management institutes
produce  40000  management  graduates  annually.  Given  this  quality  and
magnitude of human capital India’s potential to create enterprises is unlimited.

2.3

In Silicon Valley, these very Indians have proved their potential and  have carved
out a prominent place in terms of wealth creation as well as credibility. There are
success  stories  that  are  well  known.  They  were  backed  by  a  venture  capital
environment in Silicon Valley and elsewhere in US which supports innovation and

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

10

11

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

invention.  This also has a powerful grip over the nation’s collective imagination.
At least 30%  of  the  start-up  enterprises  in  Silicon  Valley  are  started/backed  by
Indians. Back home also, as per NASSCOM data, the turnover of software sector
in India has crossed Rs 100 billion mark during 1998. The sector grew 58% on a
year to year basis and exports accounted for Rs 65.3 billion while the domestic
market accounted for Rs 35.1 billion. Exports grew by 67% in rupee terms and
55% in US dollar terms. The strength of software professionals grew by 14% in
1997 and has crossed 160000. The global software sector is expected to grow at
12%  to  15%  per  annum  for  the  next  5  to  7  years.  With  the  inherent  skills  and
manpower  that  India  has,  software  exports  will  thrive  with  an  estimated  50%
growth per annum. The market  capitalisation of the listed software companies is
approximately 25% of the total market capitalisation of around US$ 200 billion
as  of  December,1999.There  is  also  greater  visibility  of  the  Indian  companies
globally. Given such vast potential which is not only confined to IT and software
but  also  in  several  other  sectors  like  biotechnology,  telecommunications,  media
and  entertainment,  medical  and  health  etc.,  venture  capital  industry  can  play  a
catalyst  role in industrial development.

2.4

2.5

2.6

It is important to recognise that while India is doing well in IT and software, it is
still a low cost developer and service provider. Though it has the advantage of
English-speaking,  skilled  manpower  and  cheap  labour,  its  leadership  is    on  a
slipping  edge  as  other  countries  such  as  Philippines,  China  and  Vietnam  are
moving  to  occupy  India’s  position  as  the  premier  supplier  of  low  end  software
and  support  services.    Many  such  countries  have  superior  supplies  of  power,
telecom  and  internet  connections  compared  with  India.  As  the  US  did  in  the
semiconductor  industry  in  the  eighties,  it  is  time  for  India  to  move  to  a  higher
level in the value chain. This will not happen automatically. The sequence of steps
in the high technology value chain is information, knowledge, ideas, innovation,
product  development  and  marketing.  Basically,  India  is  still  at  the  level  of
‘knowledge’.  Given  the  limited  infrastructure,  low  foreign  investment  and  other
transitional problems, it certainly needs policy support to move to the third stage
i.e. ideas and towards innovation and product development. This is very crucial
for  sustainable  growth  and  for  maintaining  India’s  competitive  edge.  This  will
need capital and other support which can be provided by venture capitalists.

India has a vast pool of   scientific and technical research carried out in research
laboratories,  defense  laboratories  as  well  as  in  universities  and  technical
institutes.    A  conducive  environment  including  incubation  facilities  can  help  a
great deal in identifying and actualizing some of this research into commercial
production.

Development  of  a  proper  venture  capital  industry  particularly  in  the  Indian
context is important for bringing to  market high quality public offerings (IPOs).
In the present situation, an individual    investor becomes a venture capitalist of a

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

11

12

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

sort by financing new enterprises and undertaking unknown risk.  Investors also
get enticed into public offerings of  unproven and at times dubious quality.  This
situation  can  be  corrected  by  venture  capital  backed    successful  enterprises
accessing the capital market.  This will also protect smaller investors. A study of
US  markets  during  the  period  1972  through  1992  showed  that  venture-backed
IPOs earned 44.6% over a typical five year holding period after listing compared
with 22.5% for non-venture backed IPOs.  The success of venture capital is partly
reflected  by  these  numbers  since  80%  of  firms  that  receive  venture  capital  are
sold  to  acquiring  companies  rather  than  coming  out  with  IPOs,  in  which  the
return  multiple  vis-à-vis  non-venture  funded  companies  is  much  higher.  This
potential can also be seen in sales growth figures for the U.S. where, from 1992 to
1998, venture capital funded companies sales have grown by 66.5% per annum
on  average  versus  5%  for  Fortune  500  firms.  The  export  growth  by  venture
funded companies was 165%.  All the top 10 sectors measured by asset and sales
growth in USA were technology related.

2.7

2.8

Thus, venture capital is valuable not just because it makes risk capital available
at  the  early  stages  of  a  project  but  also  because  of  the  expertise  of  venture
capitalist that leads to superior product development.  The big focus of venture
capital  worldwide  is,    technology.    Thus,  in  1999,  around  $30  bn  of  venture
capital  has  been  invested  in  the  U.S.  of  which  technology  firms  reportedly  got
around 75%. Besides this huge supply from organised venture funds there is an
even larger pool of “angel”  funds provided by private investors.  In 1999, it was
expected that angel investment would be of the order of $90  bn, thus making the
total “at-risk”  investment in  high technology ventures in a single year of $120
bn.   By contrast, in India, cumulative disbursements to date are not more than
$500m, of which technology firms have received only 36%.

The  other  successful  experience  is  that  of  Taiwan:    Hsinchu  Science-based
Industrial Park is the showpiece of Taiwan’s success. Forty percent of the firms
established  in  this  government  promoted  park,  which  currently  accommodate
3,000  expatriates,  were  begun  by  entrepreneurs  from  the  United  States.    The
revenue  of  firms  located  at  Hsinchu  Park  alone  was  $14  billion  in  1998.
Facilities  at  Hsinchu  include  English  language  teaching  for  the  children  of  its
expatriate  entrepreneurs.    The  Hsinchu  experiment  has  benefited  from  the
generally  high  quality  of  education  in  Taiwan,  whose  institutes  produce  50,000
engineers  annually.    Taiwan  has  74  technical  schools,  36  colleges  and  24
universities, two of  which  are  located  near  Hsinchu  Park.    The  venture  capital
environment  has  also  been  a  favorable  factor.    There  are  110  venture  capital
firms in Taiwan, including 38 begun in 1998.  By the end of 1997, these firms had
invested $1.32 billion in 1,839 ventures, mostly  in high technology.

2.9

Taiwan’s government has been particularly successful in promoting its hardware
industry  through  tax  incentives,  low  tariff  barriers,  credit  at  cheap  rates,  good

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

12

13

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

infrastructure facilities and  establishment of research institutes.  The Industrial
Research  Institute,  owned  by  the  government,    started  with  semiconductor
technology  purchased  from  RCA  Records.    The  technology  subsequently
developed at the Institute led to two very successful integrated chip firms. United
Microland  Corporation  (UMC)  and  Taiwan  Semiconductor  Manufacturing
Corporation  (TSMC),  which  were  initially  promoted  by  the  government  and
ultimately privatized.

2.10. Taiwan  has  benefited  from  close  ties  with  Silicon  Valley.    A  transnational
community  of  Taiwanese  venture  capitalists  has  fostered  a  two-way  flow  of
capital, skills and information between Silicon Valley and Taiwan. There is also
an emerging trend of grouping of Taiwanese and Indian high technology talents
in  Silicon  Valley.    India  can  learn  important  lessons  from  the  Taiwanese
government’s  focus  on  education  and  encouragement  of  small  enterprises,  via
facilities such as Hsinchu Park, as well as a U.S. –  style legal, regulatory, tax,
and institutional environment.

2.11

2.12

Similarly the  venture capital industry in  Israel has grown from one firm with a
corpus of $30 million in 1991, to eighty firms with a corpus of $3 billion  by 1998.
Further, Israel’s IT speciality is developing technology  rather than software or
products.    This  focus  has  meant  that  new  Israeli  ventures  are  most  typically
acquired by larger technology firms, and  IPO route in the U.S. markets has also
been  succeesful.    In  fact,  Israeli  companies  are  the  second  largest  group  of
companies listed on the Nasdaq markets after American companies, a remarkable
achievement for a country of 6 million persons.

Like  Taiwan,  Israel  is  another  country  in  which  government  policy  fostered  a
successful,  highly  diversified,  self-reliant  industry.    In  the  early  1990s,  Israel
restructured its legal, accounting and regulatory framework to mimic that of the
United States.  The new Israeli framework guarantees U.S. investors parity with
U.S.  tax  rates.  In  1984,  the  Israeli  government  passed  a  law  to  encourage
industrial research and development (R&D) and created the Office of the Chief
Scientist to implement government policy related to this area.  The law’s strategy
is to encourage private companies to invest in R&D projects with the government
sharing the business risk.  Under the law, a Research Committee appointed by the
Chief Scientist approves proposals for anywhere from 30 to 66 percent of given
projects’  funding (up to $250,000).  These proposals, when funded, also receive
tax exemptions for up to ten years. As an additional incentive to entrepreneurship,
the Israeli government has created  twenty six technology incubators designed to
allow start-ups to convert their ideas into commercially viable products.

2.13

Israel’s  government  participates  in  international  cooperation,  seeking  to  match
the nation’s  technical  skills  with  global  markets,  and  to  share  start-up  risks  up
front with later-stage activities such a marketing.  The most successful of these

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

13

14

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

ventures has been the Bilateral Industrial Research and Development Foundation
(BIRD),  a  joint  venture  with  the  U.S.  government.    The  Israeli  high  technology
industry  enjoys  the  same  kinds  of  transnational  ties  that  has  helped  Taiwan.
Similarly, the Israeli venture capital industry has strong U.S. connections. Several
of  Israel’s  experiences  have  relevance  for  India.    Government  policy  on
incubators,  the  funding  of  R&D  projects,  and  the  BIRD  project  provide  useful
object lessons for the Indian government and business alike.

2.14

2.15

2.16

2.17

Venture capital has played a very important role in U.K.,  Australia and Hong
Kong also in development of technology growth of exports and employment.

India certainly needs a large pool of risk capital both  from home and abroad.
Examples of US, Taiwan and Israel clearly show that this can happen provided
there  is  right  regulatory,  legal,  tax  and  institutional  environment.  It  is  also
necessary  that  start-up’s  have  access  to  R&D  flowing  out of    laboratories  and
universities  with  infrastructure  support  such  as  telecom,  technology  parks  etc.
Steps  are  being  taken  at  the  level  of  Government,  Ministry  of  Information  and
Technology, and CSIR for improvement in infrastructure and R&D.  Certain NRI
organisations are taking initiatives to create a corpus of US$500m to strengthen
the infrastructure of IITs.  More focused attempts will be required  in all these
directions.

Recent phenomena, partly ignited by success stories of Indians in US and other
places abroad, provide the indications of a growing number of young, technically
qualified entrepreneurs in India.  There are success stories within India also.  At
the same time increasing number of internationally savvy, senior managers have
been  leaving  established  multinationals  and  Indian  companies  to  start  new
ventures.    The  quality  of  enterprise    in  India  is  on  an  ascending  curve.  The
atmosphere thus is  ripe for creating the right regulatory and policy environment
for  sustaining the momentum for high-technology entrepreneurship. The Indians
abroad have leapfrogged the value chain of technology to its highest levels. By
bringing  venture  capital  and  other  supporting  infrastructure  this  can  certainly
happen at home also.

Another  important  area  is  the  need  for  multi  country  integration.    Information
Technology and Internet have brought about the trend of what can be called the
“death  of  distance”  and  operation  across  the  countries  can  be  seamlessly
integrated.    In  the  Indian  context  with  developing  IT  and  internet  technology
coupled  with  close  linkages  of  Indian  technocrats  and  entrepreneurs  located  in
India  and  abroad,  there  are  interesting  possibilities.    This  will  of  course  need
further  regulatory  and  policy  support  to  provide  operational  flexibility,  easy
entry-exit and ownership patterns to suit global needs. It is also to be noted  that
the  quality  and  quantity  of  research    conceptualized  in  startups    competes

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

14

15

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

favorably with research undertaken by  big firms.  This phenomenon is seen even
in India.

2.18 What could all this mean in terms of employment generation within India?  There
is probably no industry as employment intensive in productivity and numbers as
high technology.  In US venture funded companies have grown jobs by 40% per
annum  since  1992.    Conversely  Fortune  500  jobs  shrank  by  2.5%  per  annum
during the same period.  60% of the jobs created by venture funded companies
were  engineers/skilled  jobs.    Further  in  62%  of  the  venture  funded  companies,
stock options covered 100% of the employees.  India today produces over 60000
new computer science graduates annually and over 2 lakh more enroll annually
in  computer  training  institutes.    Besides,  about  200,000  engineering  graduates
come  out  from  engineering  colleges  in  addition  to  the  substantial  number  of
persons doing  diploma and certificate courses in technology related areas.  By
contrast, in Taiwan, the total number of engineering graduates is around 50000
and  in  US  it  is  30000  per  annum.    According  to  available  estimates  there  are
about 3,50,000 unfilled jobs of computer scientists in the US with the growth rate
of 100,000 job  requirement each year.  Achieving even a reasonable fraction of
US scale of  development in information technology and other knowledge based
areas,  there is going to be a big employment generation in India.  Additionally,
given India’s lower labour cost, the potential for employment is even larger than
what appears from these estimates.

2.19

It also needs to be noted that with other areas of business and industry getting
more and more technology oriented, there will be  requirement of jobs all around.
Indications are already emerging, as firms in India which are being outsourced
by  foreign  organisations  to  provide  services    are  recruiting  hundreds  of
employees  within  one  year  of  their  existence.    Several  such  firms  are  getting
located  around  Delhi,  Bangalore  and  Hyderabad.  With  proper  venture  capital
support, there can be a phenomenal increase in start-up enterprises which would
generate further employment potential.

2.20 Given the right environment, large flows of risk finance and venture capital  can
flow  into  the  country.    Apart  from  the  foreign  investment,  substantial  venture
capital is likely to come  from overseas Indian community in Silicon Valley. This
is particularly so as some of the Indian technocrat entrepreneurs in Silicon Valley
have strong Indian linkages at  professional level  and are  enthused to invest in
India.    There  are  at  least    300  such  entrepreneurs  with  individual  wealth
exceeding $5 million and total wealth of about $25 US billion.  Another 1000 are
believed to have wealth in the range of $ 1-5 million.  Currently, about 20% of
their  wealth  is  reinvested  in  new  ventures  which  will  rise  as  vesting  schedules
mature. The risk capital with Indian entrepreneurs is around $6 billion and even
if    15% to  20%  comes  to  India  annually,  there  is  a  ready  pool  of    around  $1
billion available for annual venture capital investment in India. Further, larger

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

15

16

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

venture capital firms in the United States with a combined corpus of around US$
35  billion  have  reportedly  set  aside  upto  20%  of  their  funds  for  investment
offshore.  India  along  with  Ireland  and  Taiwan,  is  a  favoured  destination  for
investments by these offshore venture funds.

2.21

The net FII investment in Indian markets is around US $10 billion and the flows
for  the  last  few  years  have  generally  been  positive.    With  enhanced  interest  in
India as compared to some of the other emerging and Asian markets, given the
right  environment    good  amount  of  money  would  flow  as  venture  capital
investment.    This  is    more  so  because  India  has  already  acquired  credibility
particularly  in  the  area  of  information  technology  and  sectors  like  media,
pharmaceuticals etc.  While the proportion of offshore to local capital which is
around 80% foreign and 20% domestic, may remain same for the first few years,
the  recycling  of  entrepreneurial  wealth  and  skills  within  the  industry  will
gradually lead to greater presence of  domestic venture capital industry .

2.22 With this background India is rightly poised for a big leap. This can happen by
creating the right environment and the mind set to understand global forces and
when  that  happens  we  would  have  created  not  “Silicon  Valley”  but  the  “Ind
Valley” a phenomena for the world to watch and reckon with .

3.0

3.1

CRITICAL  FACTORS 
INDUSTRY

  FOR  SUCCESS  OF  VENTURE  CAPITAL

Getting  it  right  is  what  this  report  is  concerned  about.    The  endeavor  of  the
Committee  has  been  to  make  recommendations  that  will  facilitate,  through  an
enabling  regulatory,  legal,  tax  and  institutional  environment,  the  creation  of  a
pool of risk capital to finance   start-up enterprises with the underlying objective
of helping India achieve:  a) rapid economic growth and  b) integration with the
global economy from a position of strength.

3.2

While making the recommendations, the Committee felt that the following factors 
are critical for the success of the VC industry in India:

•  The regulatory, tax and legal environment should play an enabling role .  This
also  underscores    the  facilitating  and  promotional  role  of  regulation.
Internationally,  venture  funds  have  evolved  in  an  atmosphere  of  structural
flexibility, fiscal neutrality and operational adaptability. We need to provide
regulatory simplicity and structural flexibility on the same lines. There is also
the  need  for  a  level  playing  field  between  domestic  and  offshore  venture
capital investors.  This has already been done for the mutual fund industry in
India.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

16

17

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                
• 

Investment, management and exit should provide flexibility to suit the business
requirements  and  should  also  be  driven  by  global  trends.  Venture  capital
investments  have  typically  come  from  high  net  worth  individuals  who  have
risk taking capacity.  Since high risk is involved in venture financing, venture
investors  globally  seek  investment  and  exit  on  very  flexible  terms  which
provides them with certain levels of protection.   Such exit should be possible
through IPOs and mergers/acquisitions on a global basis and not just within
India.

•  There  is  also  the    need  for  identifying  and  increasing  the  domestic  pool  of
funds  for  venture  capital  investment.    In  US,  apart  from  high  net  worth
individuals and angel investors, pension funds, insurance funds, mutual funds
etc provide  a  very  big  source  of  money.    The  share  of  corporate  funding  is
also increasing and it was as high as 25.9% in the year 1998 as compared to
2% in 1995.  Corporations are also setting up their own venture capital funds.
Similar  avenues need to be identified in India also.

•  With increasing global integration and mobility of capital it is important that
Indian venture capital firms as well as venture financed enterprises be able to
have opportunities for investment abroad.  This would not only enhance their
ability  to  generate  better  returns  but  also  add  to  their  experience  and
expertise  to  function  successfully  in  a  global  environment.    We  need  our
enterprises to become global and create their own success stories.  Therefore,
automatic,  transparent  and  flexible  norms  need  to  be  created  for  such
investments by domestic firms and enterprises.

•  Venture  capital  should  become  an  institutionalized  industry  financed  and
managed  by  successful  entrepreneurs,  professional    and  sophisticated
investors.    Globally,  venture  capitalist  are  not  merely  finance  providers  but
are also closely involved with the investee enterprises and provide expertise
by way of management and marketing support.  This industry has developed
its own ethos and culture. Venture capital has only one common aspect that
cuts across geography i.e. it is risk capital invested by experts in the field.  It
is  important  that  venture  capital  in  India    be  allowed  to  develop  via
professional and institutional management.

• 

Infrastructure  development  also  needs  to  be  prioritized  using  government
support  and  private  management.    This  involves  creation  of  technology  as
well  as  knowledge  incubators    for  supporting    innovation  and  ideas.  R  &D
also needs  to be promoted by government as well as other organisations.

The recommendation of the Committee are discussed and enumerated in the paragraphs
hereafter.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

17

18

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                
4.0 MULTIPLICITY  OF  REGULATIONS  –  NEED  FOR  HARMONISATION

AND A NODAL REGULATOR

4.1

At  present,  the  Venture  Capital  activity  in  India  comes  under  the  purview  of
different sets of regulations namely :

(i) 

(ii) 

(iii) 

The  SEBI  (Venture  Capital  Funds)  Regulation,  1996[Regulations]  lays
down the overall regulatory framework for registration and operations of
venture capital funds in India.

Overseas  venture  capital  investments  are  subject  to  the  Government  of
India Guidelines for Overseas Venture Capital Investment in India dated
September 20, 1995.

For tax exemptions purposes venture capital funds also needs  to  comply
with the Income Tax Rules made under Section 10(23FA) of the Income
Tax Act.

In  addition  to  the  above,  offshore  funds  also  require  FIPB/RBI  approval  for
investment in domestic funds as well as in Venture Capital Undertakings(VCU).
Domestic  funds  with  offshore  contributions  also  require  RBI  approval  for  the
pricing  of  securities  to  be  purchased  in  VCU  likewise,  at  the  time  of
disinvestment, RBI approval is required for the pricing of the securities.

The  multiple  set  of  Guidelines  and  other  requirements  have  created
inconsistencies and detract from the overall objectives of development of Venture
Capital  industry  in  India.  All  the  three  set  of  regulations  prescribe  different
investment criteria for VCFs as under :

4.2

4.3

(cid:216)  SEBI regulations permit investment by venture capital funds in equity or equity
related instruments of unlisted companies and also in financially weak and sick
industries  whose  shares  are  listed  or  unlisted.  The  Government  of  India
Guidelines  and  the  Income  Tax  Rules  restrict  the  investment  by  venture  capital
funds only in the equity of unlisted companies.

(cid:216)  SEBI  Regulations  provide  that  atleast  80%  of  the  funds  should  be  invested  in
venture  capital  companies  and  no  other  limits  are  prescribed.  The  Income  Tax
Rule  until  now  provided  that  VCF  shall  invest  only  upto  40%  of  the  paid-up
capital  of  VCU  and  also  not  beyond  20%  of  the  corpus  of  the  VCF.  The
Government  of  India  guidelines  also  prescribe  similar  restriction.  Now  the
Income Tax Rules have been amended and  provides  that  VCF  shall  invest  only
upto 25% of the corpus of the venture capital fund in a single company.

(cid:216)  SEBI  Regulations  do  not  provide  for  any  sectoral  restrictions  for  investment
except investment in companies engaged in financial services. The Government of
India Guidelines also do not provide for any  sectoral restriction, however, there

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

18

19

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

are sectoral restrictions under the Income Tax Guidelines which provide that a
VCF can make investment only in companies engaged in the business of software,
information technology, production of basic drugs in pharmaceutical sector, bio-
technology, agriculture and allied sector and such other sectors as notified by the
Central  Government  in  India  and  for  production  or  manufacture  of  articles  or
substance for which patent has been granted by National Research Laboratory or
any other scientific research institution approved by the Department of Science
and  Technology,  if  the  VCF  intends  to  claim  Income  Tax  exemption.    Infact,
erstwhile  Section  10(23F)  of  Income  Tax  Act  was  much  wider  in  its  scope  and
permitted  VCFs  to  invest  in  VCUs  engaged  in  various  manufacture  and
production  activities  also.  It  was  only  after  SEBI  recommended  to  CBDT  that
atleast  in  certain  sectors  as  specified  in  SEBI’s  recommendations,  the  need  for
dual registration / approval of VCF should be dispensed with, CBDT instead of
dispensing with the dual requirement, restricted investment to these sectors only.
This has further curtailed the investment flexibility.

4.4

4.5

The Income Tax Act provides tax exemptions to the VCFs under Section 10(23FA)
subject  to  compliance  with  Income  Tax  Rules.  The  Income  Tax  Rules  inter  alia
provide that to avail the exemption under Section 10(23FA),  VCFs need to make
an application to the Director of Income Tax (Exemptions) for approval. One of
the conditions of approval is that the fund should be registered with SEBI. Rule
2D  also  lays  down  conditions  for  investments  and  section  10(23FA)  lays  down
sectors in which VCF can make investment in order to avail tax exemptions. Once
a  VCF  is  registered  with  SEBI,  there  should  be  no  separate  requirement  of
approval under the Income Tax Act for availing tax exemptions. This is already in
practice in the case of mutual funds.

The  concurrent  prevalence  of  multiple  sets  of  guidelines  /  requirements  of
different  organisations  has  created  inconsistencies  and  also  the  negative
perception about the regulatory environment in India. Since SEBI is responsible
for  overall  regulation  and  registration  of  venture  capital  funds,  the  need  is  to
harmonise and consolidate  within the framework  of SEBI Regulation to provide
for  uniform,  hassle  free,  one  window  clearance.  A  functional  and  successful
pattern is already available in this regard in the case of mutual  funds which are
regulated through one set of regulations under SEBI Mutual Fund Regulations.
Once  a  mutual  fund  is  registered  with  SEBI,  it  automatically  enjoys    tax
exemption  entitlement.  Similarly,  in  the  case  of  FIIs  tax  benefits  and  foreign
inflow/ outflow are automatically available once these entities are registered with
SEBI.

4.6

It is therefore necessary that there is a single regulatory framework under SEBI
Act for registration and regulation of  VCFs  in  India.  It  may  be  mentioned  that
Government of India Guidelines were framed on September 20, 1995 and SEBI
regulations were framed in 1996 pursuant to the amendment in the SEBI Act in

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

19

20

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

1995  giving  SEBI  the  mandate  to  frame  regulations  for  venture  capital  funds.
After  the  notification  of  SEBI  regulations,  separate  GOI  Guidelines  for  venture
investments should have been repealed. Further, once a VCF  including the fund
having contribution from off shore investors, is registered with SEBI, the inflows
and  outflows  of  funds  should  be  under  transparent  automatic  route  and  there
should  be  no  need  for  separate  FIPB  /  RBI  approvals  in  the  matters  of
investments, entry / exit pricing. Likewise, VCF once registered with SEBI should
be  entitled  for  automatic  tax  exemptions  as  in  the  case  of  mutual  funds.  Such
single  regulatory  requirement  would  provide  much  needed  investment  and
operational  flexibility,  make  the  perception  of  foreign  investors  positive  and
create  the  required  environment  for  increased  flow  of  funds  and  growth  of  the
venture capital industry in India.

4.7

SEBI  regulations  provides  flexibility  in  selection  of  investment  to  the  VCF,
however, in the event of subscription to the fund by an overseas investor or the
fund  choosing  to  seek  income  tax  exemptions,  the  investment  flexibility  is
curtailed to a great extent. It  is  worth  mentioning  that  one  of  the  condition  for
grant of approval under the Income Tax Rules for seeking exemption under the
Income  Tax  Act  is  that  the  fund  should  be  registered  with  SEBI  which  make  it
obligatory on the venture capital fund not only to follow Income Tax Rules but
also  the  SEBI  Regulations.  Further,  a  VCF  has  to  seek  separate  registration
under  the  SEBI  Act  and  approval  under  the  Rules  of  Income  Tax  apart  from
seeking approval from FIPB / RBI in the event of subscription to the fund by an
overseas investor.

4.8

RECOMMENDATIONS

In the above background, following recommendations are proposed:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

Since  SEBI  is  responsible  for  registration  and  regulation  of  venture
capital  funds,  the  need  is  to  harmonise  and  consolidate  multiple
regulatory  requirements  within  the  framework  of  SEBI  regulations  to
provide for uniform, hassle free, single window clearance with SEBI as a
nodal regulator.

In view of the (a) above, Government of India may consider repealing the
Government  of  India  –  MoF(DEA)  Guidelines  for  Overseas  Venture
Capital Investment in India dated September 20, 1995

The Foreign Venture Capital Investor (FVCI) should registered under the
SEBI Regulations under the pattern of FIIs.

For SEBI registered VCF, requirement of separate rules under the Income
Tax Act should be dispensed with on the pattern of mutual funds.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

20

21

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

5.0.

TAX PASS THROUGH FOR VENTURE CAPITAL FUNDS

5.1

Internationally, VCFs being dedicated pools of capital, operate in fiscal neutrality
and are treated as pass through vehicles. In any case, the investors of VCFs and
VCUs are subject to income tax. Through a series of changes in the Tax Laws, a
distinct  fiscal  frame  work  has  already  been  created  over  the  last  decade,  for
taxation  of  Mutual  Funds.    The  fiscal  regime  for  mutual  funds  quite  simply
eliminated  the  tax  at  the  pool  level  while  maintaining  taxation  at  the  investor
level.  Thereby  it  avoided  double  taxation  of  the  same  stream  of  income  of  an
unincorporated  pool  and  concomitantly  maintained  single  tax  at  investor  level.
The objective behind is to provide fiscal neutrality as the income is taxed in the
hands  of  final  recipient  and  intermediary  body  is  considered  a  pass  through
entity. Drawing the same analogy, a Venture Capital Fund is also a pool of  funds
of investors and income of the fund should be taxed in the hands of the investor
and  the  fund  should  be  considered  a  pass  through  entity  and  exempt  under  the
income tax.  Under the present regime, income of a VCF is taxable at fund level,
(except for the exemption provided under section 10(23 FA) of the Income tax act
for the income by the way of dividend and capital gains) and also taxable in the
hands of investors when distributed by VCF. Pre-empting dual level (pool, as well
as investor level) taxation has been a hallmark of Indian Income Tax Legislation
for decades.  It is therefore recommended that the present Section 10(23FA) be
reenacted such that it provides complete exemption from income tax at fund level
on the basis of SEBI Registration (like in the case of mutual funds). Exempting the
VCF from income tax does not necessarily cause the loss of revenue as these are
pass through entities and income distributed by VCF would be taxed in the hand
of investors. Further, such pass through income would not just include dividends
only, but also capital gains and interest income. In most of the cases, the bulk of
income pass through would be in the nature of capital gains which attract tax in
contrast to the income passed through as dividend. This would therefore increase
the country's tax base without any negative effect on the revenues.

5.2

In  addition,  venture  capital  activities  aid  to  the  growth  of  industrial  activity,
which would indirectly add to the tax payers base. Global experience shows that
venture  funded  enterprises  have  created  more  wealth  and  consequent  tax
revenues. It is certainly believed that in India also, with the active venture capital
funding,  there  would  be  a  very  large  number  of  successful  enterprises  which
would add to the national wealth creation including the tax revenues.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

21

22

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                
5.3

RECOMMENDATIONS

In the above background, following recommendations are proposed :

(a) The  existing  section  10(23FA)  of  Income  Tax  Act  needs  to  be  re-enacted  to
provide  for  automatic  income  tax  exemption  to  VCFs  registered  with  SEBI
(like in the case of mutual funds) which will eliminate the taxation at the pool
level  while  maintaining  the  same  at  investor  level.  The  new  Income  tax
Section 10(23FA) would then read as under :

“Any income of a registered venture capital fund under the Securities and
Exchange Board of India Act 1992 or Regulations made thereunder”.

Consequently, no separate rules as in 2D would be needed.

6.  MOBILISATION OF GLOBAL AND DOMESTIC RESOURCE

6.1

Foreign Venture Capital Investors(FVCIs)

6.1.1 At  present,  offshore  investors  make  investment  in  VCU  either  by  investing  in
domestic venture capital funds by seeking one time approval from FIPB through
FDI  route  directly.    However,  this  requires  FIPB  approval      for  every  single
investment.  Further, for every investment and disinvestment, RBI approvals are
required in respect of pricing of securities. The Government of India guidelines
provide for one time FIPB approval in the case of venture capital fund with 100%
investment by offshore investors, but in practice, requirement of taking approval
for pricing of securities from RBI remains for every investment and disinvestment.
Foreign  investors  find  the  requirements  of  taking  FIPB/RBI  approvals  very
cumbersome and time consuming.

6.1.2 Most  of  the  offshore  investors  are  incorporated  in  tax  havens  particularly
Mauritius  to  have  the  benefit  of  double  tax  treaty  and  they  do  not  have  an
incidence of tax in India. These investors feel that if making investment in India is
made  hassle  free  and  automatic  in  a  transparent  manner  with  proper  tax
exemptions, there would be no need for them to adopt Mauritius route and avoid
several operational problems. FVCIs therefore shall be provided tax exemptions.
This provision will put all FVCIs, whether investing through Mauritius route or
not, on the same footing.

6.1.3 Realising  the  importance  of  venture  capital  investments  for  the  development  of
industry and business in India, it is necessary that inflow of such investments are
encouraged  and  facilitated.    In  case  of  FIIs  there  is  already  a  hassle  free  and
automatic  route  for  investment  and  repatriation  without  specific  FIPB/RBI
approval  for  investments  and  disinvestments.    Once  registered  with  SEBI,  FIIs

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

22

23

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

can  freely  make  investments.    This  has  brought  positive  investment  and  the  net
investment  are  around  US$10  billions.    It  would  therefore,  be  desirable  that
atleast at par with FIIs. FVCIs are allowed the facility of  registration with SEBI
and once registered they should have the same facility of hassle free investments
without any requirement of approvals from FIPB/RBI.   This would also provide
authentic data and disclosures as regards their commitments and investments in
VCU in India.  Presently, as per Annexure III of the Industrial Policy 1991, there
are already several sectors which are eligible for the investment under automatic
approval  route  varying  from  50%  to  100%  of  the  paid  up  capital  of  the
companies.  In case of  NRIs and OCBs this limit is 100%.  Keeping this in view
and venture capital being a thrust area for attracting risk finance for development
of  business  and  industry,  100% inflow  of  funds  of  the  foreign  venture  capital
investors should be allowed through automatic approval route without requiring
either  FIPB/RBI  approval  once  registered  with  SEBI.    Appropriate  regulatory
requirements  in  respect  of  FVCIs  could  be  incorporated  under  SEBI  venture
capital funds regulations.  Alternatively, FVCIs should be allowed to invest within
overall  ceiling  of  50%  of  the  paid  up  capital  of  the  investee  company  under
automatic  route.    However,  the  ceiling  of  50%  would  get  substituted  by  higher
ceilings of 51%, 74% and 100%  in respect of the sectors as provided in annexure
III  of  the  Statement  of  Industrial  Policy  and  would  get  decreased  accordingly
wherever  Government  of  India  has  prescribed  lower  ceiling  as  in  the  case  of
insurance, banking sector etc.  This proposal is consistent with the existing policy
of Government of India as regards automatic approvals.

6.1.4 The hassle free entry of such FVCIs on the pattern of FIIs is even more necessary

because of the following factors :

(iv) 

(v) 

(vi) 

Venture capital is a high risk area. In out of 10 projects, 8 either  fails or
yield negligible returns. It is therefore in the interest of the country that
FVCIs bear such a risk.
For  venture  capital  activity,  high  capitalisation  of  venture  capital
companies is essential to withstand the losses in 80% of the projects. In
India, we do not have such strong companies.
The FVCIs are also more experienced in providing the needed managerial
expertise and other supports.

6.1.5 Further, the FVCI bringing in foreign currency should be permitted to retain the
same in foreign exchange either with the Bank in India or outside till it is actually
invested.  Further, as permitted in the case of FIIs they may be permitted to take
forward cover to protect against the currency, price fluctuation risk.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

23

24

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                
6.1.6 Recommendations

In view of the above background, following recommendations are proposed :

a)  SEBI  regulations  should  be  amended  to  include  provisions  for  registration
and regulation of Foreign Venture Capital Investor(FVCI) on the pattern of
FIIs and once registered, should be extended .the same facility of hassle free
investment and disinvestment without any approval from FIPB/RBI.

b)  Foreign VC Investor (FVCI), registered with SEBI would be eligible to make
venture capital investments under automatic route without any ceiling and any
requirement of FIPB or RBI approval or alternatively, in the overall ceiling of
50%  in  any  sector  under  automatic  route  without  FIPB/RBI  approval
provided  the  overall  ceiling  would  automatically  get  substituted  by  higher
ceiling of 51%,74% and 100% as prescribed under Annexure III of Statement
of  Industrial  Policy  or  will  get  reduced  in  accordance  with  the  ceilings  for
investment prescribed by Government of India in certain specified sectors like
banking, insurance etc.

c)  The  FVCI  should  be  permitted  to  park  their  foreign  remittances  in  foreign
exchange in a bank in India or outside till actually invested in VCUs and they
should also be permitted to obtain forward cover as permitted to FIIs.

d)  The Government may consider providing a tax exemption to registered FVCI

to attract large pool of risk capital directly into India.

6.2

Augmenting the Domestic pool of Resources

6.2.1 The present pool of domestic venture capital and commitments made by FVCIs is
around US$ 1.3 billion. This pool has been predominantly contributed by  foreign
funds to the extent of 80%. The domestic pool of venture capital is very limited.
The  acute  need  for  venture  capital  in  India  is  for  small  and  medium  industries
which  could  preferably  be  financed  by  domestic  venture  capital  funds,  as  the
foreign  funds,  seek  to  invest  in  relatively  larger  enterprises  and  the  return
expectations are also high. The main sources of contribution for domestic venture
capital funds are from financial institutions, banks, high networth individuals, etc.
The  venture  capital  activity  needs  to  be  deep  rooted  to  promote  a  small  and
medium scale industries promoted by professionally qualified entrepreneurs in hi-
tech, research oriented sectors. It is therefore necessary to augment the pool of
resources for domestic venture capital funds.

6.2.2 The investment horizon of a venture capital fund is for a longer duration ranging
from five to ten years and the  funds  are  contributed  mainly  by  the  institutional
investors  and  high  networth  individuals.  Typically,  the  institutional  investors
include  Banks,    financial  institutions,  Insurance  Companies,  Pension  Funds,
Private Trusts, Endowments and angel investors which in case of India are yet not
active into venture capital industry. The expected role of banks, mutual funds and

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

24

25

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

insurance companies in promotion of venture capital activity in India is discussed
hereunder :

6.2.3 Banks: RBI had recently allowed banks to invest in Venture Capital funds with a
provision that this investment could be treated as priority sector lending. In order
to encourage the banks to provide venture capital to start up industries, the RBI
should treat venture financing by banks under the priority sectors lending to small
scale 
in  venture  Capital
Funds/Undertakings directly or through subsidiaries, should not be counted for
the  purpose  of  5%  exposure  to  the  capital  market.  Further,  Banks  should  be
encouraged to extend line of credit to Venture Capital Funds.

investments  made  by  Banks 

industries.  The 

6.2.4 Mutual Funds: The Mutual Fund industry is fast becoming a channel for routing
private  savings  into  capital  market.  Given  that  an  appropriate  regulatory
framework  for  Mutual  Funds  is  in  place,  it  would  be  desirable  that  the  mutual
funds are permitted to invest upto 10% of their corpus in SEBI registered Venture
Funds.  Within  this  ceiling,  individual  Mutual  Funds  may  have  their  own
prudential  limits.  This  would  also  give  the  opportunity  to  retail  investors  to
participate  in  high  growth  enterprises  through  the  institutional  mechanism  of
mutual funds. Further, Mutual Funds can set up a dedicated fund for investment
in VCF / VCU.

6.2.5 Insurance Companies: Insurance companies typically accumulate large pools of
capital which is available for investment on a long-term horizon. If such funds are
deployed in venture capital industry, these may not only generate good return to
the insurance company, at the same time, would provide significant resources to
the venture capital industry. Insurance companies may be permitted to invest in
SEBI registered Venture capital Funds within certain ceilings.

6.2.6 It  is  seen  in  many  developed  and  developing  countries  that  the  entry  of
institutional  players  not  only  boosted  resource  mobilisation  for  venture  capital
activity but also over a period of time, these institutional investors become expert
assessors of the investment activities of Funds and provides appropriate business
guidance,  as  happened  in  USA.  Thus,  these  investors  not  only  provide  large
resources  for  venture  capital  activity,  but  also  help  in  developing  appropriate
system for monitoring the investment by VCF.

6.2.7 RECOMMENDATION

(a)

In the light of the above it  is  recommended  that  the  mutual  fund,  banks
and insurance companies should be permitted to invest in SEBI registered
venture capital funds.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

25

26

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

7.0

7.1

FLEXIBILITY IN INVESTMENT AND EXIT

Allowing Flexible Structure

7.1.1 The venture capital fund is a high risk and reward activity. The investments are
made  by  high  networth  individuals  and  institutions  to  reap  high  returns.  The
investor  in  venture  capital  funds  does  not  involve  himself  in  day-to-day
management  of  the  fund  and  the  activities  of  the  funds  are  managed  by
professionals.  The  investor  therefore  likes  to  keep  their  liability  limited  to  the
contribution  committed  by  them  to  the  fund  and  are  not  willing  to  take  on  any
other  liability.  The  venture  capital  funds  are  set  up  for  a  limited  life  and  on
maturity,  the  returns  are  distributed  amongst  the  investors.  The  structure  of
venture  capital  funds  should  therefore  protect  the  interest  of  investors  and  the
liquidation process should be simple. Limited Partnership(LP), Limited Liability
Partnership(LLP)  and  the  Limited  Liability  Company(LLC)  are  commonly  used
and  widely  accepted  structures  internationally  especially  in  USA  which  has  an
active venture capital industry. These structures limit the liability of investors to
the extent of funds committed, at the same time they can be structured to become
pass through vehicles for the purpose of income tax. The legal structure of LP,
LLP and LLC is enclosed as Annexure to the Report.

7.1.2 For  venture  capital  funds  which  deal  in  high  risk  investments  structuring
flexibility  is  very  important  to  meet  their  business  strategies.  In  India,  such
structures like LP, LLP and LLC are not recognised under the Indian Partnership
Act and the Indian Companies Act. For development of VC industry in India on
global  lines  and  also  to  facilitate  and  attract  the  foreign  investment  in  venture
capital  industry,  such  alternative  structures  need  to  be  provided  by  bringing
appropriate changes in legislation.

7.1.3 Under the SEBI Regulations a VCF can be registered in the form of a Trust, a
Company  or  a  Body  Corporate(with  a  recent  amendment  dated  November  17,
1999  under  the  Regulations).  A  company  or  a  body  corporate  registered  with
SEBI  may  float  multiple  schemes  for  investment  in  different  categories  of
companies  and  the  fund  set  up  as  trust  may  also  establish  one  or  more  funds
under it. SEBI Regulations however, do not specifically provide for registration of
a scheme floated by a body corporate or a company, as like mutual fund schemes
and  multiple  funds  set  up  by  a  venture  capital  fund  incorporated  as  a  trust.  At
present, the LP, LLP and LLC structure are also not permitted under the statutes
ie.  the  Indian  Partnership  Act  and  the  Indian  Companies  Act  However,  as  and
when  permitted,  these  should  be  eligible  to  be  registered  under  the  SEBI
Regulations. The SEBI regulation therefore needs to be amended to provide for
registration  of  other  entities  such  as  LP,  LLP,  LLC,  etc  as  well  as  the  scheme

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

26

27

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

floated  by  or  the  fund  setup  by  a  Trust,  Body  Corporate,  Company  and  other
entities.

7.1.4 Recommendations

In view of the above background the following recommendations  are proposed:-

(a) The  necessary  legislative  provisions  for  incorporation  of  entities  such  as
Limited  Partnership(LP),  Limited  Liability  Partnership(LLP),  Limited
Liability Company(LLC) may be made by way of enactment of separate Act or
by  way  of  amending  the  existing  Indian  Partnership  Act  and  Indian
Companies Act.

(b) SEBI Regulations should be amended to include the eligibility for registration
of  other  entities  such  as  LP,  LLP,  LLC,  etc.  as  and  when  permitted  to  be
incorporated under the respective statutes.

(c) SEBI Regulation should be amended to include a provision for registration of
scheme floated or funds set up by a Trust, Company, Body Corporate or any
other entity.

(d) The  Indian  Companies  Act  be  amended  so  as  to  permit  issue  of  shares  by
unlisted  limited  companies  with  differential  right  in  regard  to  voting  and
dividend. Such a flexibility already exists under the Companies Act in the case
of private companies which are not subsidiary of public limited companies.

7.2

Flexibility in the matter of investment ceilings and sectoral restrictions

7.2.1 Venture  capital  Investments  falls  under  high  risk  category  of  investment  and
typically it comes from high  networth sophisticated and long term investors and
institutions. The basic dictum in VC investments therefore is that "Money finds its
best  use"  as  the  investors  and  fund  managers  are  expected  to  be  expert,
sophisticated and fully aware of the risk / return potentials. Unlike several other
type  of  investments,  venture  capitalists  provide  fund  to  build  up  resources  and
enterprises. Because of the very nature of VC  investment and type of investors
involved,  a  high  degree  of  flexibility  in  terms  of  selection  of  investment,
instruments  and  terms  of  investment  is  required.  Internationally  also,  venture
capital industry has developed in an environment which provides such investment
flexibilities.

7.2.2 In the present regulatory requirements, there are sectoral restrictions as well as
various types of investment ceilings. Sectoral restrictions for investment by VCFs
are not consistent with the very concept of venture in promotion of innovation and

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

27

28

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

technology as innovation and technology based ideas could emerge in any area of
business,  manufacturing  or  services.  The  function  of  VCFs  is  to  provide  risk
capital  and  support  idea  based  enterprises.  All  over  the  world,  specially  in
countries  like  USA,  Israel,  Taiwan,  Malaysia,  Australia,  etc  venture  capital
funding  has  gone  to  business,  service  as  well  as  manufacturing  and  helped  the
growth  in  all  these  sectors.  Selectivity  comes  in  the  very  nature  of  VC  funding
which  comes  from  high  networth,  sophisticated  individual  and  institutional
investors  who  know  where  to  put  their  money  to  its  best  use.  It  is  therefore
strongly  believed  that  sectoral  restrictions  crate  unnecessary  obstacles  and
hamper the growth of VC activity. However, certain restrictions could be put by
specifying  a  negative  list  which  could  include  areas  like  real  estate,  finance
companies, activities not legally permitted and any other sectors which could be
notified with SEBI in consultation with the Government.  Infact, the present SEBI
regulations  as  well  as  Government  of  India  Guidelines  do  not  have  any  such
restrictions  and  restrictions  have  been  put  under  the  Income  Tax  Act  for  tax
exemption purposes only. However in view of the discussion in the earlier chapter
and  the  proposed  recommendation  therein  that  as  in  the  case  of  mutual  funds,
once registered with SEBI, VCF could be automatically entitled to tax exemption
and no separate rules under the Income Tax Act would be required.

7.2.3 The investment criteria under the SEBI regulations prescribe that at least 80% of
the funds raised by VCF should be invested in unlisted or financially weak sick
companies.  The  Income  Tax  Rules  and  the  Government  of  India  Guidelines  for
overseas venture capital investment until recently prescribe a ceiling of 40% of
paid up capital of an investee company and not beyond 20% of the corpus of the
fund. These investment restrictions can seriously affect the flexibility in operation
of  venture  capital  fund.  The  venture  funds  may  engineer  a  turnabout  by
increasing  their  stake  in  an  investee  firm  and  restructuring  the  management.
During  these  times,  the  restriction  of  investing  only  upto  40%  of  the  paid  up
capital of the company will be a major constraint. Similarly, if the performance of
investee  companies  are  below  expectation,  the  VCF  may  choose  to  withhold
further  release  of  funds  into  the  investee  companies  which  may  violate  the
minimum  80%  investment  limit  under  SEBI  Regulation.  It  is  therefore  felt  that
VCFs  should  have  flexibility  of  investment  depending  upon  the  business
requirement in start up companies. Further, the ceiling of investment of not more
than 25% of the corpus of the VCF in one single investee company would meet the
requirement of diversification of risk of VCFs. Here it may be noted that globally
VCFs invest in sufficient number of investments which is part of the investment
strategy.  However  in  the  Indian  context  and  since  VC  industry  is  still  in  the
evolutionary stage, it would be desirable to keep the ceiling of 25% of the corpus
for investment in single VCU. Further, VCF should not be permitted to invest in
associated  companies.  No  other  investment  ceilings  including  80%  limit  for
investment  as  provided  in  SEBI  Regulations  are  appropriate  in  VC  operations.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

28

29

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

Manner and nature of investments should be disclosed by VCFs as a part of their
investment strategy statement. 

7.2.4 The SEBI Regulation restricts the investment by VCF in unlisted equity or equity
related  instruments  and  listed  securities  of  financially  weak  or  sick  companies.
The  Government  of  India  Guidelines  and  the  Income  Tax  Rules  restrict  the
investment  only  in  unlisted  equity  of  the  investee  company.  The  venture  capital
fund  need  to  enter  into  structured  deals  and  the  deals  may  also  include  the
options for venture capital funds to buy or sell the equity of the investee company
on occurrence of particular event. Sometimes, the VCFs require to invest partly in
debt also. Such flexibilities of investment instruments are not available to VCF in
India  in  view  of  the  Government  of  India  Guidelines  and  CBDT  Guidelines  as
well as to some extent under SEBI Regulations also. Therefore, while primarily
the VCFs should be investing in unlisted equity only, there should be flexibility to
invest in listed equity though with a reasonable ceiling. Further, the investment in
listed  equity  should  be  restricted  through  the  initial  public  offer  of  a  company
whose shares are proposed to be listed or through a preferential offer in the case
of a company which is already listed. Similarly, in certain situations, VCFs are
required to provide debt also to the undertakings where they have already made
VC investment. Thus the investment other than unlisted equity  may be permitted
within the overall ceiling of 30% of the investible fund and atleast 70% should be
invested  in  unlisted  equity,  equity  related  instruments  or  other  instruments
convertible into equity. This is keeping in tune with the funding patterns of VCFs
globally.

7.2.5 In  USA,  the  investment  by  VCFs  are  done  as  subscription  to  preferred  stock
(similar  to  preference  share  in  terms  of  dividend  and  liquidation)  with
preferential voting /veto rights in respect of key decisions like modification in the
Memorandum and Article of Association, expansion or sale of whole or part of
business, merger or acquisition, etc. The preferred stock is convertible into equity
shares at the option of venture capital investors. In order to facilitate investment
by VCF in new enterprises, the Companies Act may be amended so as to permit
issue of shares by unlisted public companies with a differential right in regard to
voting and dividend. Such a flexibility already exists under the Indian Companies
Act in the case of private companies which are not subsidiaries of public limited
companies.

7.2.6 The venture capitalists invest into long term high risk portfolios to create wealth.
FIIs  invest  money  with  a  shorter  outlook  and  time  frame  which  may  add  to
speculation and volatility in the capital market. On the other hand, investment by
venture  capitalists  are  long  term  investments  and  contribute  to  the  building  of
enterprises and promotion of industrial and business activity. The venture capital
investors therefore in no way should be put to more restrictions as compared to
FIIs.  On  the  contrary,  such  investment  should    be  encouraged  and  facilitated

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

29

30

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

through regulatory support. The FVCI needs to obtain approval for pricing from
RBI at the time of investment as well as disinvestment. However, when FIIs invest
in  unlisted  equity  stocks,  they  are  not  required  to  obtain  such  approvals.  In
addition  to  this,  the  formula  applied  for  arriving  at  the  prices  of  unlisted
securities    based  on  book  value  and  PE  multiples  of  BSE  National  Index  are
extremely  restrictive  and  not  in  tune  with  the  valuations  relevant  to  the  new
generation  enterprises  which  typically  obtain  VC  funding  like  in  infotech,  bio-
tech,  service  industries,  etc.  Such  enterprises  especially  start  up  enterprises  do
not have tangible assets but the stock of the same may obtain high valuations due
to their intangible assets  like human resources, growth prospects, etc. Therefore,
once foreign venture capital investor either coming through 100%  funding  in  a
domestic VCF or otherwise registered with SEBI  should not be subjected to such
requirements.

7.2.7 Recommendations:

In the above background, the following recommendations are proposed:

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

Investments  by  VCFs  in  VCUs  should  not  be  subject  to  any  sectoral
restrictions  except  those  to  be  specified  as  a  negative  list  by  SEBI  in
consultation  with  the  Government  which  may  include  areas  like  real
estate, finance companies and activities prohibited by Law.

There is no need for any ceiling of investment in equity of a company. It is
understood that the investment ceiling of 40% of paid up capital of VCU
under  the  Income  tax  Act  has  already  been  removed.  As  a  prudential
norm, the investment in one VCU should not exceed 25% of the corpus of
VCF..

The  investment  criteria  needs  to  be  amended  to  provide  for  investment
criteria  whereby  VCF  invest  primarily  in  unlisted  equity  and  partly  in
listed equity, structured instruments or debts also. The investment in listed
equity  shall  be  through  IPO  or  preferential  offer  and  not  through  the
secondary market route. The VCF shall invest atleast 70% of the investible
funds in unlisted equity of VCU and 30%of investible funds may be used
for  investment  through  IPO,  preferential  offer,  debt,  etc.  The  investible
funds  would  be  net  of  expenditure  incurred  for  administration  and
management of the funds. The present requirement of investment of atleast
80% of the funds raised by the VCF under the SEBI Regulations needs to
be replaced by the criteria as under:

(i)  The  VCF  will  disclose  the  investment  strategy  at  the  time  of

application for registration.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

30

31

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

(ii) The  VCF  shall  not  invest  more  than  25%  of  the  corpus  in  one  VCU

and shall not invest in an associated concern.

(iii) The VCF will make investment in the venture capital
        undertakings as enumerated  below :

(1) atleast  70%  of  the  investible  funds  shall  be  invested  in  unlisted
equity  shares  or  equity  related  instruments  or  other  instruments
convertible into equity;

(2) not more than 30% of the investible funds may be invested by way

of -

(cid:216)  subscription to the initial public offer of a VCU whose shares are

proposed to be listed subject to lock in period of one year;

(cid:216)  preferential allotment of equity of a listed VCU subject to lock in

period of one year;

(cid:216)  debt  /  debt  instrument  to  a  venture  capital  undertaking  in  which

VCF has already made investments by way of equity.

(iv) 

(v) 

The existing provisions under the SEBI regulations for investment
in  listed  securities  of  financially  weak  or  sick  companies  may  be
dispensed  with  as  such  investments  would  get  covered  under  the
30% limit.
The  existing  provisions  under  SEBI  regulations  permitting
financial  assistance  in  any  other  manner,  to  companies  in  whose
equity  shares  venture  capital  fund  has  invested,  needs  to  be
dispensed with as this also gets covered in 30% limit.

The registered FVCI should be permitted to invest and exit in a hassle free
automatic route as permitted to FIIs without requirement of approval of
pricing by RBI.

The  provisions  under  Section  370  &  372  under  the  Companies  Act
relating to Inter-corporate Investment and Inter-corporate Loan should be
relaxed in the case of venture capital funds incorporated as Companies.

In  order  to  facilitate  investment  by  VCF  in  new  enterprises,  the
Companies Act may be amended so as to permit issue of shares by unlisted
public  companies  with  a  differential  right  in  regard  to  voting  and
dividend. Such a flexibility already exists under the Indian Companies Act
in  the  case  of  private  companies  which  are  not  subsidiaries  of  public
limited companies.

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

31

32

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                
7.3

Flexibility in Exit

7.3.1 Venture  capital  funds  are  set  up  to  make  investment  in  venture  capital
undertakings  for  a  defined  timeframe  say  8-12  years.  As  and  when  investment
matures, the investors are paid back the returns and on expiry of the timeframe,
the funds are liquidated. The structure of VCF therefore should be such that its
liquidation is simpler. In India, a VCF can be incorporated as a trust, a company
or a body corporate. The liquidation of trust is comparatively easier as compared
to that of a company or a body corporate. The guidelines for buyback of shares by
the  company  are  not  adequate  to  facilitate  the  liquidation  process  and
distribution  of  capital  among  the  shareholders.  Because  of  cumbersome
liquidation procedure to be followed in the case of a company, most of the funds
in India had been set up as a trust. Structures such as LP, LLP and LLC (which
have  been  discussed  in  the  Report  earlier)  are  popular  amongst  international
venture capitalists because of their easy liquidation procedure. This is one of the
main  reasons  the  Committee  has  recommended  necessary  amendments  in  the
statutes to permit incorporation of LP, LLP and LLC in India.

7.3.2 In  the  case  of  a  VCF  constituted  as  a  company,  the  existing  guidelines  for
buyback of shares should be relaxed to permit them to buyback the shares out of
the sale proceeds of investments and assets instead of reserves, share premiums
and  fresh  issue  proceeds.  The  buyback  relaxation  should  also  be  extended  to  a
VCU which proposes to buyback the equity from the VCF. This would provide an
exit opportunity to the VCF. The existing conditions for buyback of equity shares
by an unlisted company prohibit the company from making a fresh issue of capital
for a period of 24 months. This has been a major constraining factor for growth
oriented companies, to buyback their shares, even if they have a cash surplus. The
prohibition  period  for  fresh  issue  of  capital  may  be  reduced  to  a  period  of  six
months as VCUs are typically growing companies and they may need financing
and should not be debarred from making fresh issue of capital for a longer period
of  time.  The  existing  guidelines  also  do  not  permit  the  negotiated  deal  even  in
unlisted equity. The provision may be suitably relaxed in the case of transaction
where VCF is one of the parties.

7.3.3 A  VCF  gets  an  opportunity  to  exit  from  the  investment  when  VCU  shares  are
listed  on  a  recognised  stock  exchange.  The  present  IPO  guidelines  of  SEBI
requires a three years track record of profit for a company to float a public issue.
However,  some  of  the  companies  operating  in  emerging  areas  such  as  internet
and  e-commerce  may  not  be  in  a  position  to  generate  profits  yet  they  have
adequate market share in business to justify a significant market capitalisation.
Also these type of companies are at present seeking listing outside country. This
deprives domestic venture capital funds of an exit on listing of stock of VCU. The
IPO  norms  and  listing  requirements  need  to  be  reviewed  in  the  cases  of
companies funded by VCFs to facilitate early exit for them. The present benefit of

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

32

33

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

project  apprised  and  funded  by  Bank/Financial  Institution  should  also  be
extended to project financed by the registered venture capital funds. The revised
IPO  criteria  would  be  either  companies  having  three  years  track  record  of
profitability  or  the  project  is  funded  to  the  extent  of  10%  by  Banks,  Financial
Institutions or registered venture capital fund. The  participation of the venture
capital fund to the extent of  10% of the project cost however should be locked in
for  a  period  of  one  year.  Those  companies  which  are  funded  by  Venture
capitalists  and  their  securities  are  listed  on  the  stock  exchanges  outside  the
country,  these  companies  should  be  permitted  to  list  their  shares  on  the  Indian
stock exchanges.

7.3.4 The  VCF  enter  into  an  agreement  with  the  VCU  at  the  time  of  commitment  for
participation in the venture which inter alia includes an option to the VCF to buy
or sell the securities from / to the promoters. The legality of such an agreement is
not  clear  in  the  light  of  Circular  issued  by  Government  of  India  1969  under
Section 16 of SC(R)A when the share of the VCU are listed on the stock exchange.
Further, in the event of shares being listed on the stock exchange, the exercising
of  the  right  by  VCF  may  trigger  off  SEBI  Takeover  Code.  The  necessary
exemptions may be granted to VCF to enable them to exercise their contractual
rights within the framework of law.

7.3.5 The trading in unlisted securities are not held in an organised manner in India.
The transaction in unlisted securities are primarily bi-lateral contracts among the
buyer and seller. SEBI has permitted OTCEI to develop a platform where it will
facilitate trading in unlisted equities between qualified investors. This would help
in arriving at the prices of unlisted securities as per the market forces. The VCF
and  FVCI  registered  with  SEBI    should  be  considered  eligible  for  qualified
investor and at the same time the joint promoters of the ventures should also be
eligible to be qualified investors.

7.3.6 If FVCI disinvest and transfer its holding in VCU in favour of any other person, it
is  required  by  RBI  to  obtain  a  NOC  from  the  joint  venture  partner  and  other
shareholders.  The  process  of  obtaining  NOC  is  time  consuming  and  cause
uncertainty about the transaction for a FVCI as joint venture partners may create
obstacle in the exit route for VCFs. The requirement for obtaining NOC should be
dispensed with.

7.3.7 RECOMMENDATIONS

In view of the above background, the following recommendations are proposed:

(a) Relaxing  buyback  requirements  :  The  provisions  under  the  Companies  Act

for buyback of securities needs to be amended as under :

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

33

34

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

(cid:216)  24 months prohibition period for fresh issue of capital to be reduced to
6  months  in  the  case  of  unlisted  companies  where  the  buyback  of
shares is from the VC investors ;

(cid:216)  negotiated deals be permitted in unlisted companies where one of the

party to the deal  is venture capital investor;

(cid:216)  permit VCC / VCU to redeem their equity shares / preference shares to
an  extent  of  100%  of  their  paid  up  capital  out  of  sale  proceeds  of
investment  and  assets  and  not  necessarily  out  of  free  reserves,
securities premium account or the proceed of fresh issue should apply
to them.

(b) Relaxing Takeover Code : The venture capital fund while exercising its call
or  put  option  as  per  the  terms  of  agreement  should  be  exempt  from
applicability of takeover code and 1969 circular under section 16 of SC(R)A
issued by the Government of India.

(c)  Relaxing  the  IPO  norms  :The  existing  requirement  under  the  SEBI
(Initial Public Offer) Guidelines for three years track record of profit should
be relaxed in the case of companies funded by VCFs. Further, the companies
whose shares are already listed on stock exchanges outside India, the listing
rules should be relaxed to permit the listing of shares of these companies on
Indian  Stock  exchanges.  Those  companies  which  are  funded  by  Venture
capitalists and their securities are listed on the stock exchanges outside the
country, these companies should be permitted to list their shares on the Indian
stock exchanges.

(d) QIB  market  for  unlisted  securities  :  The  market  for  trading  in  unlisted
securities should be promoted. The VCF / joint promoters should be eligible
as qualified investor to participate in the unlisted equity segment of OTCEI or
any other stock exchange permitted by SEBI.

(e) NOC  requirement  :  In  the  case  of  transfer  of  securities  by  FVCIs  to  any
another  person,  the  RBI  requirement  of  obtaining  NOC  from  joint  venture
partner or other shareholders should be dispensed with.

(f)  RBI pricing norms : The FVCI should be permitted to invest and exit from
any investment as like FIIs without any requirement of prior approval of the
pricing of securities by RBI.

8.0 

8.1

GLOBAL INTEGRATION AND OPPORTUNITIES

Incentive for Employees - Employees Stock Option Plan (ESOP)

8.1.1 Currently,  the  Stock  Options  shall  be  available  to  non-resident  and  resident
permanent  employees  (including  Indian  and  overseas  working  directors)  of  the
company.  The  Stock  options  shall  not  be  available  to  the  promoters  and  their
relatives  as(  defined  under  the  Companies  Act).  Venture  Capital  funded
companies typically have a large option pool for their employees from 5-30% of
the  Issued  equity.  This  would  include  Incubator,  CEO  and  the  Start-up  team.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

34

35

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

Currently, these persons would come under the meaning of “Promoter” under the
ESOP guidelines and hence may not qualify for ESOP. This has to be amended to
exempt Venture Capital funded companies.

8.1.2 Currently, the RBI permit's Indian resident employees investment upto US$10,000
in  a  period  of  5  years  under  an  employee  Stock  Option  Scheme  of  a  foreign
company. This limit should be enhanced to US$100,000 during a five year period.

8.1.3 The  general  FERA  permission  for  resident  employees  of  software  companies
under the ADR/GDR linked stock option scheme has been granted by the Reserve
bank  of  India  which  entitles    a  resident  employee  to  acquire  and  /or  hold
ADR/GDR linked stock option, acquire ADR/GDR on exercise of the option, remit
funds  upto  a  limit  of  $50,000  in  a  block  of  five  years  for  acquisition  of
ADRs/GDRs  and  to  retain  or  continue  holding  ADRs/GDRs  so  acquired.  The
resident  employee  upon  liquidation  of  the  ADR/GDR  holding  would  need  to
repatriate the proceeds to India unless a general/specific permission from the RBI
is  obtained  for  its  retention  or  use  abroad.  This  limit  should  be  enhanced  to
US$100,000 during a five year period.

8.1.4 Currently,  if  foreign  employees  wish  to  participate  in  Employees  Stock  Option
Scheme of an Indian Company with repatriation benefits then, they can do so on
an automatic basis within the overall ceiling of 50% or 51% or 74% of the shares
of  the  Indian  Company  depending  on  the  type  of  industry  in  which  the  Indian
Company  is  engaged.    It  is  proposed  that  foreign  employees  be  allowed  to
participate under an Employee Stock Option Scheme so as to invest in shares of
an  Indian  Company  with  full  repatriation  benefits  with  an  upper  ceiling  of
US$100,000 over five years.

8.2

Incidence of tax

8.2.1 At present, when the option is exercised by the employee, it is taxed in the hands
of employee as income from salary and when the shares are actually sold, that is
taxed  separately.  It  is  recommended  that  the  employees  who  have  opted  to
exercise  their  option  under  ESOP  be  taxed  only  at  the  time  of  exit  i.e.  sale  of
shares  by  them  and  not  at  the  time  of  exercise  of  the  option.    Globally  this
practice is followed in many countries..

8.3 

Incentives for Shareholders:

8.3.1 The shareholders of an Indian company that has venture capital funding and is
desirous  of  swapping  its  shares  with  that  of  a  foreign  company  should  be
permitted to do so.   Similarly,  if an Indian company  having  venture funding and
is  desirous  of  issuing  an  ADR/GDR,    venture  capital  shareholders  (holding
saleable stock) of the domestic company and desirous of disinvesting their shares

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

35

36

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

through  the  ADR/GDR  should  be  permitted  to  do  so.  Internationally,  70%  of
successful  startups  are  acquired  through  a  stock-swap  transaction  rather  than
being  purchased  for  cash  or  going  public  through  an  IPO.        Such  flexibility
should be available for Indian startups as well.   Similarly, shareholders can take
advantage  of  the  higher  valuations  in  overseas  markets  while  divesting    their
holdings.

8.4 

Global investment opportunities for domestic VCFs

8.4.1 With  increasing  global  integration,  it  is  important  that  the  domestic  venture
capital  funds  also  have  the  opportunities  to  invest  abroad.  This  would  enable
them to generate better returns globally and also expose them to the international
market practices. We need to encourage Indian enterprises to become global. The
domestic  VCF  should  be  permitted  to  make  investments  abroad  under  certain
transparent, automatic norms subject to ceilings.

8.4.2 It  is  recommended  that  domestic  VC  Funds  should  be  permitted  to  invest  in
securities  of  companies  incorporated  outside  India.  Such  investment  may  be
subject to a ceiling of higher of -

(cid:216)  25% of the Fund Corpus, or
(cid:216)  US$ 10 million per VC Fund or
(cid:216)  to the extent of foreign investment in the corpus of the VC Fund

8.5

 Liberalise Sweat Equity issuance norms

8.5.1 Under Section 79A of the Companies Act, 1956, a company can issue sweat equity
only one year after it is entitled to commence business. This provision negates the
possibility of sweat equity issuances in start-ups. The government should relax the
one-year lock-in period.

9.0

9.1

AMENDMENT IN SEBI REGULATIONS

As  in  the  case  of  FIIs,  SEBI’s  primary  role  in  the  venture  capital  fund  is
envisaged  as  of  a  facilitator  for  growth  rather  than  that  of  a  regulator.  SEBI
Regulations should encourage more venture capital investments in a hassle free
manner. The multiplicity of regulations, as far as possible, should be avoided and
one  set  of  regulatory  guidelines  may  be  issued  under  the  aegis  of  one  nodal
agency  for  interface  with  the  venture  capital  investors  which  could    be  SEBI.
SEBI  Regulations  should  focus  more  on  adequate  disclosure  as  investors  in
venture  capital  activities  are  institutions  or  high  networth  individuals  who  are
expected  to  have  the  capability  of  taking  an  informed  decision  based  on  the
disclosures.  The  regulatory  requirement  of  seeking  approval  of  the  placement

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

36

37

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

memorandum from SEBI may be dispensed with by strengthening the disclosure
requirements.  The  SEBI  Regulations  also  provide  in  the  case  of  a  VCF
incorporated as a trust for compulsory registration of instrument of trust under
the Indian Registration Act. As per the provisions of Indian Registration Act, the
registration of trust document is optional. There are operational problems in the
case  of  existing  VCFs  (in  existence  before  SEBI  Regulations  were  notified)  to
register the document of trust after lapse of four months period. It should be left
to  the  choice  of  the  applicant  whether  to  register  the  trust  document  and  there
should  not  be  any  compulsion  for  registration  of  documents  under  the  Indian
Registration  Act  under  the  SEBI  Regulation.  The  venture  capital  activity  is  in
nascent  stage  in  India  as  of  today  and  many  dimensions  of  it  are  still  to  be
unfolded.  SEBI  Regulations  therefore  should  not  curtail  the  flexibility  of
investment by a VCF.

9.2

The  present  regulatory  framework  permits  the  investment  by  VCF  in  sick
industrial  undertaking  needs  a  review.  There  are  various  agencies  who  are
engaged  in  restructuring,  financing  to  sick  industries  and  there  is  no  acute
necessity for venture capital funds to invest mainly in sick industrial undertakings.
The  VCF  should  focus  on  investment  in  green  shoe  high  technology  oriented,
knowledge  based,  research  oriented  industries,  however,  VCFs  may  also  be
provided flexibility to participate in the restructuring process of sick industries as
and when required.

9.3

Recommendations

The following amendments are recommended under the existing SEBI Venture
Capital Regulations :

(a) The definition of VCF should be amended to include any other structures and
also the funds set up, scheme floated by a trust, company, body corporate or
other legal entities.

(b) The  Regulation  should  make  provisions  for  registration  of  Foreign  Venture

Capital Investors (FVCI).

(c) The  investment  criteria  needs  to  be  redefined  to  permit  investment  by  VCF
primarily in equity or equity related instruments or securities convertible into
equity of VCUs and also by way of subscription to IPO and preferential offer
in case of companies to be listed or already listed. The limit of atleast 80% of
the  funds  raised  by  the  VCF  may  be  dispensed  with  and  new  investment
criteria  as  dealt  under  the  heading  Investment  related  issues  may  be
incorporated.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

37

38

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

(d) The  relaxations  for  venture  capital  undertaking/funds  under  SEBI  Takeover
Code and SEBI (Initial Public Offer) guidelines as dealt under the heading of
Exit related issues may also be incorporated.

(e) The provision for investment in sick companies and financial assistance in any

other manner may be dispensed with.

(f)  The existing provisions for approval of placement memorandum by SEBI may
be  dispensed  with  but  the  content  of  placement  memorandum  may  be
strengthened  to  include  all  the  significant  information  necessary  for  an
investor to arrive at a fair decision.

(g) SEBI  regulations  should  be  amended  to  dispense  with  the  requirement  of

registration of the instrument of trust under the Indian Registration Act.

10.0 

     INFRASTRUCTURE AND R&D

10.1

10.2

Venture capital industry in India is still in its early stages and to give it a proper
fillip  it  is  important  to  develop  related  infrastructure  as  has  been  successfully
done internationally specially in US, Taiwan and Israel.  Following areas need
due attention.

Incubators:  Incubators  are  mostly  non  profit  entities  that  provide  value  added
advisory,  informational  and  certain  support  infrastructure  which  includes
productive office environment, finance and complementary resources.  Incubators
are  mostly  promoted  by  Government  or  professional  organisations  seeking  to
develop small enterprises in a particular area.  In US even city government have
promoted  several  incubators  to  capture  a  portion  of  Silicon  Valley  high
technology  business.  Some  times  venture  capitals  funds  also  have  their  own
incubators and companies also set up in-house incubators.  Incubators typically
give a very initial stage support to young entrepreneurs who want to develop their
idea to a viable commercial  proposition which could be financed and supported
by  venture  capitalist.    Incubators  have  been  started  by  Government  and  public
institutions, to encourage young talent by providing initial facilities and finance
has  really  helped  countries  like  US,  Israel,  Taiwan  etc.    According  to  US  SBA
statistics  about  25%  of  incubator  firms  are  successful  (defined  as  profitability
within 5 years of establishment).

10.2.1 Increasingly  there  are  transnational  incubators  in  Silicon  Valley,  Israel  and
Taiwan  which  provide  the  head  start  advantage  of  accessing  global  experience
and  environment  to  young  entrepreneurs  of  the  respective  countries.    In  India,
Central  and  State  Governments,  public  institutions  should  support  and  set  up
incubators.  Government should also consider giving infrastructural support and
other incentives including tax incentives for promotion of incubators.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

38

39

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

10.2.2 There  is  also  need  to  consider  some  successful  models  which  have  supported
venture capital activity and enterprise building in a substantial manner two such
models are discussed hereunder:

10.3 U.S. Small Business Investment Company (SBIC) Program

10.3.1 The  SBIC  Program,  administered  by  the  U.S.  Small  Business  Administration
(SBA) is the largest government support program for venture capital in the world,
and is a model to be considered, perhaps with modification, by other nations that
want  to  stimulate  venture  capital  investment.    In  40  years  of  operation,  SBICs
have  invested  over  S21  billion  in  nearly  120,000  financings  to  U.S.  small
businesses,  including  such  successes  as  Intel  Corporation,  Apple  Computer,
Federal Express and America Online.

10.3.2 The SBIC does not distinguish between types of businesses, although investments
in  buyouts,  real  estate,  and  oil  exploration  are  prohibited.    In  1998,  the  SBIC
invested $3.4 billion in 3,470 ventures, approximately 40 percent by number and
20  percent  by  dollar  value  of  all  venture  capital  financings.    Over  half  that
amount was given over to businesses three years old or younger.  Companies such
as  Apple,  America  Online,  Intel  and  Sun  stand  as  some  of  the  SBIC’s  more
famous past financings, but the lesson of its success lies in successfully financing
thousand of small, unknown firms.

10.3.4 The basic objective of the program is to attract and supplement private capital for
venture  capital  funds  (SBICs),  managed  by  private  investment  managers,  that
invest in small companies that would not otherwise be able to raise capital from
purely  private  sources.    Many  require  amounts  of  capital  greater  than  that
available from individuals, but less than the minimum required by private venture
capital firms.  In this program, SBA licenses, regulates, and agrees to provide two
thirds of the total capital of an SBIC with the remaining one third provided as
equity  by  private 
foundations,
endowments,  wealthy  individuals  and  pension  plans.    The  SBICs  are  organised
and  are  operated  just  like  private  venture  capital  funds,  with  all  investment
decisions made by the private fund manager.

insurance  companies, 

investors  such  as 

10.3.5 SBICs  agree  to  abide  by  SBA  regulations,  primarily  to  make  only  direct
investments in companies small enough to meet required standards.  Except for
the exclusion of a few industries, investments are not targeted by SBA.  Capital
supplied by SBA requires a rate of return much lower than that expected by the
fund as a whole.  Any excess flows to the private investors and fund managers,
increasing or “leveraging” their returns.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

39

40

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                
10.3.6 SBA funds are provided either through 10 year loans (“debentures”) or preferred
limited  partnership  equity  investments  (“participating  securities”).    Debentures
require current payment of interest and are used by  SBICs that make loans with
equity  rights  or  features.    Participating  securities,  which  have  no  current  cash
payment  obligation,  are  used  by  SBICs  that  make  equity  investments  in  small
companies.  The rate and fees of the debentures to the SBIC are about 2% above
the  ten-year  U.S.  treasury  rate.    In  addition  to  this  basic  cost,  SBICs  using
participating securities must pay 10% of their profits to SBA.

10.3.7 Funds for the program are raised by SBA in the capital markets through the sale
of debentures guaranteed by SBA and the U.S. government.  In the U.S. budget
system, the only required government appropriation is a “credit subsidy” or form
of loss reserve, which now is less than 2% of the value of the financings.  This
year, an appropriation of $27 million will allow SBA to guarantee $2.3 billion of
debt, proceeds of which will be made available to SBICs with private capital of
around  $1.2  billion,  thus  making  $3.5  billion  available  for  investment  in  U.S.
small businesses.

10.3.8 In  addition  to  making  45%  of  the  total  number  of  equity  financings  made  by
venture capital firms to U.S. small business last year, with an average investment
size well below that of private venture firms, the SBIC program assists new fund
managers  who  are  raising  their  first  funds.    The  program  is  achieving  its
objectives and helping to build the venture capital industry of the future.

10.3.9 The  SBIC  program  undoubtedly  has  relevance  for  India,  and  it  is  possible  a
structure could be implemented in which Indian venture capital firms registered
with SEBI could avail themselves of those funds.

10.4

The Bilateral Industrial Research and Development Foundation (BIRD), Israel

10.4.1 Israel’s  government  participates  in  international  cooperation,  seeking  to  match
the  nation’s  technical  skills  with  global  markets  and  to  share  start-up  risks  up
front with later-stage activities such as marketing.  The most successful of these
ventures has been the Bilateral Industrial Research and Development Foundation
(BIRD).  Begun in 1977 as an equal partnership with the U.S. government, the
BIRD  Foundation  was  seeded  with  $110  million  to  fund  joint  ventures  between
Israeli and U.S. firms.  BIRD provides 50 percent of a company’s R&D expenses,
with equal amounts going to each partner.  Its return comes from the royalties it
charges on the company’s revenue.

10.4.2 Any  pair  of  companies,  one  from  each  country,  may  jointly  apply  for  BIRD
support,  if  between  them  they  have  the  capability  and  infrastructure  to  define,
develop, manufacture, sell and support an innovative product based on industrial
R&D.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

40

41

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

10.4.3 BIRD  often  plays  a  proactive  role  in  bringing  potential  strategic  partners
together.  In the US, the companies are mostly public or at least bound in that
direction  and  are  engaged  in  the  development  and  manufacture  of  high
technology products.  The potential of these companies to grow is perceived as
limited only by their capacity to devise and develop new products.  In Israel, the
companies  BIRD  recruit  have  leading-edge  technological  and  production
capabilities, are flexible and are eager to join forces with an American company
in product development and commercialization.

10.4.4 In practice, only 25 percent of the funded projects have been successful, but this is
a  satisfactory  rate  even  for  private  funds.    The  monies  BIRD  has  earned  on
profitable  projects  more  than  offset  losses  made  by  the  rest,  thus  allowing  the
Foundation to maintain the value of its corpus, BIRD approves about forty new
projects a year, with average funding of $1.2 million for a duration of twelve to
fifteen months.  It has so far funded five hundred such projects.

11.0 AWARENESS CREATION

11.1

Proper  awareness  of  venture  capital  activity  is  important  for  its  development.
There should be public accessibility to relevant information and data regarding
venture capital activity. One immediate measure could be creation of an informed
website which could have sufficient and useful data on venture capital activity.

12.0

SELF REGULATORY ORGANISATION(SRO)

12.1

It  is  also  desirable  that  a  Self  Regulatory  Organisation  for  venture  capital
industry  in  India  is  created.    Such  organisation  would  help  in  evolution  of
standard  practices,  code  of  conduct,  apart  from  generating  and  disseminating
information about the industry.

The Committee is of the view that implementation of these recommendations would lead
to creation of an enabling regulatory and institutional environment to facilitate faster
growth of venture capital industry in the country.  Apart from  increasing the  domestic
pool of venture capital, around US$ 10 billion are expected to be brought in by offshore
investors over 3/5 years on conservative estimates. This would in turn lead to increase
in  the  value  of  products  and  services  adding  upto  US$100  billion  to  GDP  by  2005.
Venture  supported  enterprises  would  convert  into  quality  IPOs  providing  over  all
benefit  and  protection  to  the  investors.    Additionally,  judging  from  the  global
experience,  this  will  result  into  substantial  and  sustainable  employment  generation  of
around  3 million jobs in skilled sector alone over next five years. Spin off effect of such
activity would create other support services and further employment.  This can put India
on a path of rapid economic growth and on a position of strength in global economy.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

41

42

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                

Shri K.B. Chandrasekhar

Chairman

Shri L.K. Singhvi
Member Secretary

Sabeer Bhatia
Member

Prof. Rafiq Dossani
Member

Dr. Arvind Virmani
Member

A.N. Prasad
Member

M.G. Srivastava
Member

Dr. Sailendar Narain
Member

S.K. Chakrabarti
Member

Prof. K. Ramachandran
Member

Sudhir Sethi
Member

Jonathon Bond
Member

Pradip Shah
Member

Vishnu Varshney
Member

Vimal Bhandari
Member

A.V. Jayachander
Member

Joseph Bosco
Member

Uday Kotak
Member

Rajendra P. Chitale
Member

Nishith M. Desai
Member

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

42

43

                Securities and Exchange Board of India

                
Acknowledgements

At the outset the committee would like to place on record its appreciation and gratitude
to Shri D.R. Mehta, Chairman, SEBI.  But for his initiative and inspiration this effort
would not have been successful.

Prof.  Rafiq  Dossani,  Asia  Pacific  Research  Center,  Stanford  University,  and  L.K.  Singhvi,
Senior Executive Director, SEBI and Member Secretary of the Committee,  went beyond their call
of  duty  as    committee  members  and  co-ordinated  the  entire  process  of  interaction
between the Silicon Valley and Mumbai.  But for their active involvement and efforts it
would not have been possible to finalise this report in a comprehensive manner within
such a short time.

The  Committee  would  also  like  to  make  a  special  mention  of  Robert  Stillman    Ex-
Administrator    SBIC  Program  US  Government,      Ms.  Anat  Ganor    BIRD  Foundation  of  Israel
USA,   Jonathan J. Everett  View group Venture Capital USA,  Fred Greguras  Fenwick & West
Law Firm, who spent their valuable time and provided useful insight.

The  Committee  is  grateful  to  Kanwal  Rekhi    President  Indus  Enterpreneurs  USA,    Anil
Godhwani   Founder   AtWeb,    Tushar Dave   Founder Armedia USA,  Anil  Srivastava   CEO
Across  World  Communication  and    Somshankar  Das    General  Partner  Walden  International
Investment Group CA,   for their interaction and help.

The  Committee  greatly  appreciates  the  association  of  Prof.  K.  Ramachandran  Indian
Institute of Management Ahmedabad, Ashok Wadhwa Managing Director Ambit Corporate Finance
Pte Ltd  Mumbai,  Rakesh Rewari SIDBI Mumbai, Donald Peck Chief Executive CDC Advisors
Pvt. Ltd New Delhi,  Kiran Nadkarni Partner  Draper International,   Muneesh Chawla  IL&FS,
T.C. Meenakshisundaram  Walden Nikko and N. Subramanian Vice President ICICI Venture
Funds Management Company Ltd.

The  Committee  would  also  like  to  thank  Nandan  Nilekani    Managing  Director    Infosys
Technologies Ltd,  Ms. Lalita D. Gupte Jt. Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer  ICICI,
Sridar  Iyengar    CEO    KPMG,    Rajat  Gupta  and  Anil  Kumar  Mckinsey,  for  their  well
considered comments which helped the deliberations.

The  Committee  takes  note  of  the  assistance  provided  by  Ms.  Deanne  D’Souza  and
Ms.Amritha  Sreenivasan  of  Nishith  Desai  &  Associates-  International  Legal  &  Tax
Counsellors, Mumbai.

The Committee would like to place on record its appreciation for the efforts put in by
N.  Parakh  Division  Chief,  for  his  hardwork  and  active  involvement  in  the  committee
proceedings.    The  committee  also  is  thankful  to  S.  Parthasarathy  and  Ms.  Feli
Fernandes of SEBI for their effort and assistance in timely completion of the report.

Report of K B Chandrasekhar Committee on Venture Capital

43

