THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART –II – SECTION 3 – SUB SECTION (ii) 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 21st day of August, 2003 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(OMBUDSMAN) REGULATIONS, 2003 

S.O. No. 953(E). In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30, read with sub-section (1) of 
section 11, of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board 
hereby makes the following regulations to provide for the establishment of the office of 
Ombudsman to redress the grievance of the investors in securities and for matters connected 
therewith or incidental thereto, namely:- 

CHAPTER I 

 

PRELIMINARY 

SHORT TITLE AND COMMENCEMENT 

1.(1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 

Definitions 

 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,- 

(a) "Act" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 
1992 ); 

(b) "award" means a finding in the form of direction or an order of an 
Ombudsman given in accordance with these regulations; 

(c) "authorised representative" means a person duly appointed and authorised by a 
complainant or any other party to the complaint to act on his behalf and represent 
him in the proceedings before the Ombudsman; 

(d) "Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under 
section 3 of the Act; 

 

 

(e) "Chairman" means Chairman of the Board; 

(f) "complaint" means a representation in writing containing a grievance as 
specified in regulation 13 of these regulations; 

(g) "complainant" means any investor who lodges complaint with the 
Ombudsman and includes an investors association recognised by the Board. 

(h) "intermediary" means and includes a person referred to in section 12 of the 
Act; 

(i) "investor" means a person who invests or buys or sells or deals in securities; 

(j) "listed company" means a company whose securities are listed on a recognised 
stock exchange and includes a public company which intends to get its securities 
listed on a recognised stock exchange; 

 

 

(k) "member" means a member of the Board and includes the Chairman; 

(l) "Ombudsman" means any person appointed under regulation 3 of these 
regulations and unless the context otherwise requires, includes Stipendiary 
Ombudsman; 

(m) "securities" means Securities as defined in clause (h) of section 2 of the 
Securities Contracts ( Regulation ) Act,1956 ( 42 of 1956 ); 

(n) "Stipendiary Ombudsman" means a person appointed under regulation 9 for 
the purpose of acting as ombudsman in respect of a specific matter or matters in a 
specific territorial jurisdiction and for which he may be paid such expenses, 
honorarium or sitting fees as may be determined by the Board from time to time. 

(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in the Act or in 
the  rules  or  regulations  made  under  the  Act  shall  have  the  meanings  respectively  assigned  to 
them in the Act or in the rules or regulations made under the Act. 

  

  

  

ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF OMBUDSMAN 

CHAPTER II 

ESTABLISHMENT AND APPOINTMENT 

3. (1) With effect from such date as the Board may, by an order fix, there shall be established an 
office of Ombudsman for the purposes of these regulations. 

(2)The Board may, on recommendation of a Selection Committee, appoint one or more 
Ombudsmen for such territorial jurisdiction as may be specified from time to time by an order. 

(3)The Selection Committee referred in sub-regulation (2) shall consist of the following 
members, namely:- 

  

1[(i) 
nominated by the Chairman; 

an expert in the area relating to financial market operations to be 

  

(ii) 
economics, to be nominated by the Chairman;]  

a person having special knowledge and experience of law, finance or 

(iii) a representative of the Board not below the rank of Executive Director who shall be 
Secretary of the Selection Committee, to be nominated by the Chairman. 

(4) At the request of the Board, the Selection Committee may also prepare a panel of persons out 
of which a person may be appointed as Stipendiary Ombudsman. 

(5)The panel under sub-regulation (4) shall remain in force for a maximum period of two years 
and shall be reconstituted from time to time. 

Provided that any person in the existing panel shall be eligible to be included in the reconstituted 
panel. 

 

 

 

LOCATION OF OFFICE 

4. (1)Office of the Ombudsman shall be located at the Head Office of the Board and if more than 
one Ombudsman are appointed then the office of any such Ombudsman may be located at any 
other office of the Board or any other place as may be specified by the Board from time to time. 
                                                            
1 Substituted by the SEBI (Ombudsman) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 5‐12‐2003. Prior to its substitution 
it read as under:— 
"(i) 
(ii) 
experience of law, finance or economics, to be nominated by the Chairman." 

 a retired judge of a High Court, to be nominated by the Chairman; 
 an  expert  in  the  area  relating  to  financial  market  operations  or  having  special  market  knowledge  and 

Provided that the Stipendiary Ombudsman when appointed for any specific complaint or 
complaints shall be located at such place as may be specified. 

(2) In order to expedite disposal of complaints, the Ombudsman or Stipendiary Ombudsman, as 
the case may be, may hold sittings at such places within his area of jurisdiction as may be 
considered necessary and proper by him. 

(3) The Board may provide the premises and other infrastructures including staff or secretarial 
assistance for the office of Ombudsman or Stipendiary Ombudsman, as the case may be. 

QUALIFICATION 

5. In order to be appointed as an Ombudsman a person shall be - 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 

a citizen of India; 
of high moral integrity ; 
not below the age of forty five years of age; and 
either 

a. 
b. 
c. 

d. 

a retired District Judge or qualified to be appointed a District Judge or 
having at least ten years experience of service in any regulatory body or 
having special knowledge and experience in law, finance, corporate matters, 
economics, management or administration for a period not less than ten years, or 
an office bearer of investors’ association recognised by the Board having 
experience in dealing with matters relating to investor protection for a period not 
less than 10 years. 

DISQUALIFICATION 

6. (1) A person shall not be qualified to hold the office of the Ombudsman if he - 

(i) is an un-discharged insolvent ; 

(ii) has been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude; 

(iii) has been found to be of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent 
court; 

(iv) has been charge sheeted for any offence including economic offences ; or 

(v) has been a whole-time director in the office of an intermediary or a listed 
company and a period of at least 3 years has not elapsed. 

2[Provided that the disqualification provided in clause (v) shall not be applicable 
in case of a person who has been the whole-time director of a public sector bank 
or a public sector undertaking. 

  

Explanation - For the purposes of this clause— 

(a) 

'public sector bank' means— 

 a corresponding new bank specified in the First Schedule to the Banking 

(i) 
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970 (5 of 1970); 

 a corresponding new bank specified in the First Schedule to the Banking 

(ii) 
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980 (40 of 1980); 

the  State  Bank  of  India  constituted  under  the  State  Bank  of  India  Act, 

(iii) 
1955 (23 of 1955); 

 a  subsidiary  bank  as  defined  in  the  State  Bank  of  India  (Subsidiary 

(iv) 
Banks) Act, 1959 (38 of 1959); 

(b) 
 'public sector undertaking' means any corporation established by or under 
any  Central,  State  or  Provincial  Act  or  a  Government  company  as  defined  in 
section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) which is owned, controlled or 
managed by the Central Government.] 

TENURE 

7.3 [(1) A person appointed as an Ombudsman shall hold office for a term of three years and 
shall be eligible for reappointment for another period of two years: 
Provided that no person shall hold the office of Ombudsman after attaining the age of sixty-five 
years.]  

(2)The Board, at any time, before the expiry of the period specified under sub-regulation (1) may 
terminate the services of the Ombudsman by giving him notice of not less than three months in 
writing  or  three  months  salary  and  allowances  in  lieu  thereof,  and  the  Ombudsman  shall  also 
have the right to relinquish his office, at any time, before the expiry of period specified under 
sub-regulation (1), by giving to the Board notice of not less than three months in writing. 

REMUNERATION 

                                                            
2 Inserted by the SEBI (Ombudsman) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 9‐11‐2006. 
3 Substituted by the SEBI (Ombudsman) (Amendment) Regulations, 2003, w.e.f. 5‐12‐2003. Prior to its substitution, 
it read as under:— 
"(1) A person appointed as an Ombudsman shall hold office for a term not exceeding five years and shall be eligible 
for reappointment : 
Provided that no person shall hold the office of Ombudsman after attaining the age of seventy years." 

8. The salary, allowances, honorarium or fee payable to, and other terms and conditions of 
service of, an Ombudsman shall be determined by the Board from time to time. 

STIPENDIARY OMBUDSMAN - 

9. (1) Notwithstanding the appointment of Ombudsman under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3, 
the Board may appoint a person as a Stipendiary Ombudsman out of the panel prepared under 
sub-regulation (4) of regulation 3, for the purpose of acting as an Ombudsman in respect of a 
specific matter or matters in a specific territorial jurisdiction, as may be specified in the order of 
appointment. 

(2) A person shall be eligible to be appointed as Stipendiary Ombudsman who:- 

(i) has held a judicial post or an executive office under the Central or State Government for 
atleast ten years or 

(ii) is having experience of at least ten years in matters relating to consumer or investor 
protection or 

(iii) has been a legal practitioner in corporate matters for atleast 10 years or 

(iv) has served for a minimum period of ten years in any public financial institution within the 
meaning of section 4A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or a regulatory body. 

(3) Save as otherwise specified by the Board, the Stipendiary Ombudsman shall exercise all 
powers and functions as are vested in a Ombudsman under these regulations. 

(4) The Stipendiary Ombudsman shall be paid such fees or honorarium and allowances for the 
services rendered by him, as may be determined by the Board from time to time. 

TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION – 

10. Every Ombudsman or Stipendiary Ombudsman shall exercise jurisdiction in relation to an 
area as may be specified by the Board by an order. 

  

CHAPTER III 

POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF OMBUDSMAN 

 
GENERAL 

11. The Ombudsman shall have the following powers and functions :- 

(a) to receive complaints specified in regulation 13 against any intermediary or a 
listed company or both; 

(b) to consider such complaints and facilitate resolution thereof by amicable 
settlement; 

(c) to approve a friendly or amicable settlement of the dispute between the parties; 

(d) to adjudicate such complaints in the event of failure of settlement thereof by 
friendly or amicable settlement. 

  

  

OTHER POWERS AND FUNCTIONS 

 
12. (1) The Ombudsman shall - 

a.  draw up an annual budget for his office in consultation with the Board and shall incur 

expenditure within and in accordance with the provisions of the approved budget; 

b.  submit an annual report to the Board within three months of the close of each financial 

year containing general review of activities of his office; and 

c.  furnish from time to time such information to the Board as may be required by the Board. 

(2) Every financial year of the Ombudsman shall end on 31st March of each year and the 
annual report shall be given in such form and manner as may be specified by the Board. 

CHAPTER IV 

 

PROCEDURE FOR REDRESSAL OF GRIEVANCE 

GROUNDS OF COMPLAINT 

13. A person may lodge a complaint on any one or more of the following grounds either to the 
Board or to the Ombudsman concerned :- 

i.  Non-receipt of refund orders, allotment letters in respect of a public issue of securities of 

companies or units of mutual funds or collective investments schemes; 

ii.  Non-receipt of share certificates, unit certificates, debenture certificates, bonus shares; 
iii.  Non-receipt of dividend by shareholders or unit-holders; 
iv.  Non-receipt of interest on debentures, redemption amount of debentures or interest on 

delayed payment of interest on debentures ; 

v.  Non-receipt of interest on delayed refund of application monies; 
vi.  Non-receipt of annual reports or statements pertaining to the portfolios; 

vii.  Non-receipt of redemption amount from a mutual fund or returns from collective 

investment scheme; 

viii.  Non-transfer of securities by an issuer company, mutual fund, Collective Investment 

Management Company or depository within the stipulated time; 

ix.  Non-receipt of letter of offer or consideration in takeover or buy-back offer or delisting; 
x.  Non-receipt of statement of holding corporate benefits or any grievances in respect of 

corporate benefits, etc; 

xi.  Any grievance in respect of public, rights or bonus issue of a listed company ; 
xii.  Any of the matters covered under section 55A of the Companies Act, 1956; 
xiii.  Any grievance in respect of issue or dealing in securities against an intermediary or a 

listed company. 

PROCEDURE OF FILING COMPLAINT – 

14(1) Any person who has a grievance against a listed company or an intermediary 
relating to any of the matters specified in regulation 13 may himself or through his 
authorised representative or any investors association recognised by the Board, make a 
complaint against a listed company or an intermediary to the Ombudsman within whose 
jurisdiction the registered or corporate office of such listed company or intermediary is 
located. 

Provided that if the Board has not notified any Ombudsman for a particular locality or 
territorial jurisdiction, the complainant may request the Ombudsman located at the Head 
Office of the Board for forwarding his complaint to the Ombudsman of competent 
jurisdiction. 

(2) The complaint shall be in writing duly signed by the complainant or his authorised 
representative (not being a legal practitioner) in the Form specified in the Schedule to 
these regulations and supported by documents, if any. 

(3) No complaint to the Ombudsman shall lie - 

(a) unless the complainant had, before making a complaint to the Board or the 
Ombudsman concerned, made a written representation to the listed company or the 
intermediary named in the complaint and the listed company or the intermediary, 
as the case may be, had rejected the complaint or the complainant had not received 
any reply within a period of one month after the listed company or intermediary 
concerned received his representation or the complainant is not satisfied with the 
reply given to him by the listed company or an intermediary; 

(b) unless the complaint is made within six months from the date of the receipt of 
communication of rejection of his complaint by the complainant or within seven 
months after the receipt of complaint by the listed company or intermediary under 
clause (a) above. 

(c) if the complaint is in respect of the same subject matter which was settled 
through the Office of the Board or Ombudsman concerned in any previous 
proceedings, whether or not received from the same complainant or along with any 
one or more or other complainants or any one or more of the parties concerned 
with the subject matter; 

(d) if the complaint pertains to the same subject matter for which any proceedings 
before the Board or any court, tribunal or arbitrator or any other forum is pending 
or a decree or award or a final order has already been passed by any such 
competent authority, court, tribunal, arbitrator or forum. 

(e) if the complaint is in respect of or pertaining to a matter for which action has 
been taken by the Board under Section 11(4) of the Act or Chapter VI A of the Act 
or under sub-section (3) of section 12 of the Act or under any other regulations 
made under the Act. 

(4) The Ombudsman may dismiss in limine a complaint on any of the grounds specified 
under sub-regulation (3) or when such complaint is frivolous in his opinion. 

POWER TO CALL FOR INFORMATION 

15(1)For the purpose of carrying out his duties under these regulations, an Ombudsman may 
require the listed company or the intermediary named in the complaint or any other person, 
institution or authority to provide any information or furnish certified copy of any document 
relating to the subject matter of the complaint which is or is alleged to be in its or his possession: 

Provided that in the event of the failure of a listed company or the intermediary to comply with 
the requisition made under sub-regulation (1) without any sufficient cause, the Ombudsman may, 
if he deems fit, draw the inference that the information, if provided or copies if furnished, would 
be unfavourable to the listed company or intermediary. 

(2)The Ombudsman shall maintain confidentiality of any information or document coming to his 
knowledge or possession in the course of discharging his duties and shall not disclose such 
information or document to any person except and as otherwise required by law or with the 
consent of the person furnishing such information or document: 

Provided that nothing in sub-regulation (2) shall prevent the Ombudsman from disclosing 
information or document furnished by a party in a complaint to the other party or parties, to the 
extent considered by him to be reasonably required to comply with the principles of natural 
justice and fair play in the proceedings. 

Provided further that provisions of sub-regulation (2) shall not apply in relation to the disclosures 
made or information furnished by the Ombudsman to the Board or to the publication of 
Ombudsman’s award in any journal or newspaper or filing thereof before any Court, Forum or 
authority. 

  

SETTLEMENT BY MUTUAL AGREEMENT 

16(1) As soon as it may be practicable so to do, the Ombudsman shall cause a notice of the 
receipt of any complaint along with a copy of the complaint sent to the registered or corporate 
office of the listed company or office of the intermediary named in the complaint and endeavour 
to promote a settlement of the complaint by agreement or mediation between the complainant 
and the listed company or intermediary named in the complaint. 

(2) If any amicable settlement or friendly agreement is arrived at between the parties, the 
Ombudsman shall pass an award in terms of such settlement or agreement within one month 
from the date thereof and direct the parties to perform their obligations in accordance with the 
terms recorded in the award. 

(3) For the purpose of promoting a settlement of the complaint, the Ombudsman may follow 
such procedure and take such actions as he may consider appropriate. 

AWARD ON ADJUDICATION 

17 (1) In the event the matter is not resolved by mutually acceptable agreement within a period 
of one month of the receipt of the complaint or such extended period as may be permitted by the 
Ombudsman, he shall, based upon the material placed before him and after giving opportunity of 
being heard to the parties, give his award in writing or pass any other directions or orders as he 
may consider appropriate. 

(2) The award on adjudication shall be made by Ombudsman within a period of three months 
from the date of the filing of the complaint. 

Provided that no award shall be invalidated by reason alone of the fact that the award was made 
beyond the said period of three months. 

(3) The Ombudsman shall send his award to the parties to the adjudication to perform their 
obligations under the award. 

CORRECTION OF AWARD 

18 (1) Within fifteen days from the receipt of the award a party, with notice to the other party, 
may request the Ombudsman to correct any computation errors, any clerical or typographical 
errors or any other errors of a similar nature occurring in the award. 

(2) If the Ombudsman considers the request made under sub-regulation (1) to be justified, he 
shall make the correction within fifteen days from the receipt of the request which shall form part 
of the award. 

(3) The Ombudsman may also rectify any error of the type referred to in sub-regulation (1), on 
his own initiative, within fifteen days from the date of the award. 

EVIDENCE ACT NOT TO APPLY IN THE PROCEEDINGS BEFORE OMBUDSMAN 

19(1) In proceedings before the Ombudsman strict rules of evidence under the Evidence Act 
shall not apply and the Ombudsman may determine his own procedure consistent with the 
principles of natural justice. 

(2) Ombudsman shall decide whether to hold oral hearings for the presentation of evidence or for 
oral argument or whether the proceeding shall be conducted on the basis of documents and other 
materials. 

Provided that it shall not be necessary for an investor to be present at the oral hearing of 
proceedings under these regulations and the Ombudsman may proceed on the basis of the 
documentary evidence submitted before him. 

(3) No legal practitioner shall be permitted to represent the defendants or respondents at the 
proceedings before the Ombudsman except where a legal practitioner has been permitted to 
represent the complainants by the Ombudsman. 

FINALITY OF AWARD AND CIRCUMSTANCES OF REVIEW 

20.(1) Subject to the provisions of this regulation, an award shall be final and binding on the 
parties and persons claiming under them respectively. 

(2) Any party aggrieved by the award on adjudication may within one month from the receipt of 
the award under Regulation 17 or corrected award under Regulation 18 may file a petition before 
the Board setting out the grounds for review of the award. 

(3) An award may be reviewed by the Board only if – 

(a) there is substantial mis-carriage of justice, or 

(b) there is an error apparent on the face of the award. 

(4) Where a petition for review of the award under sub-regulation (2) is filed by a party from 
whom the amount mentioned in the award is to be paid to the other party in terms of the award, 
such petition shall not be entertained by the Board unless the party filing the petition has 
deposited with the Board seventy-five percent of the amount mentioned in the award. 

Provided that the Board may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, waive or reduce the amount 
to be deposited under this sub-regulation. 

(5) The Board may review the award and pass such order as it may deem appropriate. 

(6) The Board shall endeavour to dispose of the matter within a period of forty five days of the 
filing of the petition for review. 

(7) The award passed by the Ombudsman shall remain suspended till the expiry of period of one 
month for filing review petition under sub-regulation (2) or till the review petition is disposed off 
by the Board. 

(8) The party so directed shall implement the award within 30 days of receipt of the order of the 
Board on review or within such period as may be specified by the Board in the order disposing 
off the review petition. 

(9) The Board may determine its own procedure consistent with principles of natural justice in 
the matter of disposing of review petition and may dismiss the petition in limine if it does not 
satisfy any of the grounds specified in sub-regulation (3). 

  

COST AND INTEREST 

21.(1)The Ombudsman or the Board, as the case may be, shall be entitled to award reasonable 
compensation along with interest including future interest till date of satisfaction of the award at 
a rate which may not exceed one percent per mensem. 

(2) The Ombudsman in the case of an award, or the Board in the case of order passed in petition 
for review of the award, as the case may be, may determine the cost of the proceedings in the 
award and include the same in the award or as the case may be, in the order. 

(3) The Ombudsman or the Board may impose cost on the complainant for filing complaint or 
any petition for review, which is frivolous. 

CHAPTER V 

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AWARD 

CONSEQUENCES OF NON-IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AWARD 

22. (1) The award shall be implemented by the party so directed within one month of receipt of 
the award from the Ombudsman or an order of the Board passed in review petition or within 
such period as specified in the award or order of the Board. 

(2) If any person fails to implement the award or order of the Board passed in the review 
petition, without reasonable cause - 

(a) he shall be deemed to have failed to redress investors’ grievances and shall be 
liable to a penalty under section 15C of the Act; 

 

(b) he shall also be liable for - 

i. 
ii. 
iii. 
iv. 
v. 
vi. 

an action under section 11 (4) of the Act ; or 
suspension or delisting of securities; or 
being debarred from accessing the securities market; or 
being debarred from dealing in securities; or 
an action for suspension or cancellation of certificate of registration; or 
such other action permissible which may be deemed appropriate in the facts and 
circumstances of the case. 

Provided that no such order shall be passed without following the procedure laid 
down under the relevant rules or regulations. 

CHAPTER VI 

DISPLAY OF THE PARTICULARS OF THE OMBUDSMAN 

DISPLAY OF THE PARTICULARS OF THE OMBUDSMAN IN OFFICE PREMISES 
AND DOCUMENTS 

23(1) Every listed company or intermediary shall display the name and address of the 
Ombudsman as specified by the Board to whom the complaints are to be made by any aggrieved 
person in its office premises in such manner and at such place, so that it is put to notice of the 
shareholders or investors or unit holders visiting the office premises of the listed company or 
intermediary. 

(2) The listed company or intermediary in its offer document or clients agreement shall give full 
disclosure about the grievance redressal mechanism through Ombudsman under these 
regulations. 

(3) Any failure to disclose the grievance redressal mechanism through Ombudsman under sub-
regulation (2) or any failure to display the particulars as per sub-regulation (1) shall attract the 
penal provisions contained in Section 15A of the Act. 

REMOVAL OF DIFFICULTIES 

 

24.If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of these regulations, the Board may 
issue such directions or clarifications as it may think necessary or expedient for removing the 
difficulty. 

 

 

SCHEDULE 

FORM 

[Under regulation 14 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Ombudsman) Regulations, 

2003] 

  

(FOR OFFICE USE ONLY) 

  

Complaint No. ………of year ..… 

Date …………………….. 

  

  

(TO BE FILLED UP BY THE COMPLAINANT) 

To 

The Securities and Exchange Board of India/ Ombudsman 

(* give address of the office of the Board or the address of the Ombudsman having 
jurisdiction……) 

Dear Sir, 

Sub: Complaint against …………………….(Name of the listed company / intermediary) 

1. NAME OF THE COMPLAINANT ……………… 

2.  FULL ADDRESS OF THE COMPLAINANT …………………… 

…………………… 

…………………… 

27 

PIN CODE ………………….. 

PHONE NO. / FAX NO. …………………… 

  

3.  COMPLAINT AGAINST (NAME AND FULL 

ADDRESS OF THE LISTED COMPANY / 

INTERMEDIARIES ) …………………………. 

…………………………. 

PIN ……………………. 

PHONE NO. / FAX NO. ……………………. 

4.  (a) DATE OF REPRESENTATION / COMPLAINT BY THE COMPLAINANT TO 

THE LISTED COMPANY / INTERMDIARY ………………………. 

(Please enclose three copies of the representation) 

(b) Whether any reminder was sent by the complainant? YES /NO 

(If yes, please enclose three copies of the reminder) 

5.  SUBJECT MATTER/GROUNDS OF THE COMPLAINT 

(Please refer to regulation 14 of the Regulations) 

…………………………………………………………………………….. 

6.  DETAILS OF THE COMPLAINT (If space is not sufficient, please enclose separate 

sheet) 

………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…… 

28 

7. (a) Whether any reply (Within a period of one month after the listed company / intermediary 
concerned received the representation) has been received? YES / NO 

(If yes, please enclose ‘three copies’ of the reply of the listed company / intermediary) 

(b) Whether the representation has been rejected ? YES/ NO 

(If yes, please enclose ‘three copies’ of the letter of rejection) 

(c) Whether the complainant has received any other final decision of the listed company / 
intermediary? YES/ NO 

(If yes, please enclose ‘three copies’ of the letter of the listed company/intermediary conveying 
its final decision) 

 8. NATURE OF RELIEF SOUGHT FROM THE OMBUDSMAN 
……………………………………………………… 

( Please enclose ‘three copies’ of documentary proof, if any, in support of your claim) 

9. LIST OF DOCUMENTS ENCLOSED 

(Please enclose ‘three copies’ of all the documents) 

10. DECLARATION 

1.  I/ We , the complainant/s herein declare that: 

(a) the information furnished herein above is true and correct; and 

(b) I/ We have not concealed or misrepresented any fact stated in aforesaid columns and 
the documents submitted herewith. 

2.  The complaint is filed before expiry of period of one year reckoned in accordance with 

the provisions of the Regulations. 

29 

3.  (a) The subject matter of the present complaint has never been brought before the Office 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India /Ombudsman by me/ or by any one of us 
or by any of the parties concerned with the subject matter to the best of my/ our 
knowledge. 

a.  The subject matter of the present complaint is not in respect of the same which 

was settled through the Office of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
/Ombudsman in any previous proceedings 

b.  The subject matter of the present complaint has not been decided by any 

forum/court/arbitrator. 

OR 

The subject matter of the present complaint is pending since….. (please mention 
the date when the matter was filed) before …… (*Please mention the name of 

the forum/court/arbitrator before whom pending …. ) and the proceedings are 
likely to take longer time in its final adjudication as contemplated in the 
Regulations. 

1.  I/We authorise the listed company / intermediary to disclose any such information/ 

documents furnished by us to the Securities and Exchange Board of India /Ombudsman 
and disclosure whereof in the opinion of the Securities and Exchange Board of India/ 
Ombudsman is necessary and is required for redressal of any other complaint or our 
complaint. 

  

2.  I/We have carefully gone through the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India (Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003. 

  

Yours faithfully 

(Signature) 

(Complainant ) 

NOMINATION / AUTHORISIATION – (If the complainant wants to nominate/authorise his 
representative, not being a legal practitioner, to appear and make submissions on his behalf 
before the Securities and Exchange Board of India/ Ombudsman or to the Office of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India/ Ombudsman, the following declaration should also be submitted.) 

30 

I/We the above named complainant/s hereby nominate 
Shri/Smt………………………………………….. who is not a legal practitioner and whose 
address is 

…………………………………………………………………………………………as my/our 
REPRESENTATIVE in all proceedings of this complaint and confirm that any statement, 
acceptance or rejection made by him/her shall be binding on me/us. He/She has signed below in 
my presence. 

ACCEPTED 

(Signature of Representative) 

(Signature of Complainant) 

G.N. BAJPAI 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

CHAIRMAN 

  

