THE GAZETTE OF INDIA  

EXTRAORDINARY  

PART –III – SECTION 4  

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY  

NEW DELHI, MAY 26, 2008  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

NOTIFICATION  

MUMBAI, the 26th MAY, 2008  

 

1[SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

(ISSUE AND LISTING OF SECURITISED DEBT INSTRUMENTS AND SECURITY 

RECEIPTS) REGULATIONS, 2008] 

 

No. LAD-NRO/GN/2008/12/126567 - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 31 read 
with section 17A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956) and section 
30 read with sections 11 and 12 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 
of  1992),  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  hereby  makes  the  following 
Regulations, namely:-  

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY  

Short title and commencement.  
1.  (1) These Regulations shall be called the 2[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008].  
(2)  They  shall  come  into  force  on  the  date  of  their  publication  in  the  Official  Gazette. 
Definitions.  
2. (1) In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:-  
(a) “Act” means the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956);  
(b) “asset  pool”,  in  relation  to  a  scheme  of  a  special purpose  distinct  entity,  means  the  total 
debt  or  receivables,  assigned  to  such  entity  and  in  which investors  of  such  scheme  have 
beneficial interest; 

3[(ba) “asset reconstruction company” shall have the meaning assigned to it under clause (ba) 
of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets 
and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002;]  

(c) “Board” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under section 3 of 

the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act (15 of 1992);  

(d) “certificate” means a certificate of registration granted to a trustee under these regulations;  
(e) “clean-up  call  option”  means  an  option  retained  and  exercisable  by  the  originator  to 
purchase  the  debt  or  receivables  assigned  to  a  special  purpose  distinct  entity,  if  the 
residual value of such debt or receivables falls below a specified percentage of the price at 
which it was assigned;  

 

1 Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under : 
“Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments) 
Regulations, 2008.” 
2 Ibid 
3 Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018 

(f) “credit  enhancement”  means  any  arrangement  intended  to  decrease  the  likelihood  of 
default  on  the  securitised  debt  instruments,  including  subordination,  insurance,  letter  of 
credit, over-collateralisation, undertakings and guarantees;  

(g) “debt”  or  “receivables”  means  any  right  that  generates  or  results  into  a  cash  flow  and 

includes-  
(i)  mortgage debt ;  
(ii)  such receivables arising out of securities as may be specified by the Board;  
(iii) any financial asset within the meaning of clause (l) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of 
the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security 
Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002);  
4[“investor” – 
(i)  with  respect  to  “securities  debt  instrument”  means  any  person  holding  any 
securitised debt instrument which acknowledges the interest of such person in the 
debt or receivables assigned to the special purpose distinct entity; and 

(h) 

(i) 

(ii)  with  respect  to  “security  receipts”  means  a  qualified  buyer  holding  security 
receipts  which  acknowledges  the  interest  in  the  financial  asset  assigned  to  the 
issuer;”] 

5[“issue” means an –  
(i)  offer of securitised debt  instruments by a special purpose distinct  entity or under 
any scheme of such entity to the public or to any person(s), which is proposed to 
be listed on a recognised stock exchange; or 

(ii)  offer of security receipts by a trust  set  up by an asset  reconstruction company or 
under any scheme of such trust to the qualified buyers, which are proposed to be 
listed on a recognised stock exchange;]  

[(ia)   “issuer” in context of security receipts, shall be a trust set up by the asset reconstruction 
company  in  terms  of  guidelines/regulations  as  provided  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India,  and 
have issued or proposes to issue security receipts;]6 
(j) 
“liquidity  provider”  means  a  person  who  agrees  to  provide  funds  to  the  special 
purpose  distinct  entity  for  settlement  of  payments  due  to  investors  in  accordance  with  the 
schedule  of  payments  contained  in  the  terms  of  issue  of  the  securitised  debt  instruments 
issued  to  them,  in  the  event  of  any  short  term  cash  flow  shortfalls  of  the  special  purpose 
distinct entity;  
(k) 
a debt or receivables or to discharge any obligation in respect of a debt or receivables;  
(l) 

“obligor” means a person who is liable, whether under a contract or otherwise, to pay 

7[“offer document” means any –  

 

4 Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under : 
“(h) “investor”  means  a  person  holding  any  securitised  debt  instrument  which acknowledges  the  interest  
of  such  person  in  the  debt  or  receivables  assigned  to  the  special purpose distinct entity;” 
5 Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under : 
“(i)  “issue”  means  an  offer  of  securitised  debt  instruments  by  a  special  purpose  distinct  entity  or  under  any 
scheme of  such  entity to the  public  or to any  person(s),  which  is  proposed  to be listed on a  recognised  stock 
exchange;” 
6 Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
7 Substituted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under : 
 “offer  document”  means  any  document  including  an  electronic  document  described  or  issued  as  an  offer 
document or prospectus and includes any notice, circular, advertisement or other document inviting subscription 

(i) document  including  an  electronic  document  described  or  issued  as  an  offer 
document or prospectus and includes any notice, circular, advertisement or other 
document inviting subscription from the public or purchase of any securitised debt 
instruments of a scheme formulated under these regulations; or 

(ii)  a document including an electronic document, inviting subscription for the security 

receipts from the qualified buyers on private placement basis;]  

8[(la)   “offer for sale” in context of security receipt, shall mean an offer of security receipts 

by the existing holders of security receipts to other qualified buyers;”] 

(m)  “originator”  means  the  assignor  of  debt  or  receivables  to  a  special  purpose  distinct 

entity for the purpose of securitisation;  

9 [(ma)  “private  placement  offer”  in  context  of  security  receipts,  shall  mean  an  offer  of 
security  receipts  by  a  trust  setup  by  an  asset  reconstruction  company  to  a  qualified 
buyer(s)  for  subscription  and  includes  an  offer  for  sale  of  security  receipts  by  an 
existing investor(s) of such security receipts to other qualified buyers;] 

10[(mb)  “qualified  buyer”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  assigned  to  it  in  clause  (u)  of  sub-
section (1) of section 2 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and 
Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002;] 

(n)  “recognised  stock  exchange”  means  any  stock  exchange  which  is  recognised  under 

section 4 of the Act;  

(o)  “regulated  activity”,  in  relation  to  a  special  purpose  distinct  entity,  means  any  of  its 
activities  which  are  regulated  by  the  Board  under  the  Act  and  these  regulations  and 
includes  making  a  public  offer  of  securitised  debt  instruments,  making  disclosures  in 
connection  with  such  issue,  the  performance  of  obligations  relating  to  public  offer  or 
listing  and  redemption  of  such  instruments,  management  and  administration  of  the 
schemes  under  which  such  instruments  are  issued,  valuation  and  maintenance  of 
accounts  which  have  a  bearing  on  value  of  such  instruments,  and  any  other  related 
activity as may be specified by the Board;  

(p)  [“scheme” means a scheme for issue of securitised debt  instruments in  accordance with 
these regulations or for issue of security receipts under Securitisation and Reconstruction 
of  Financial  Assets  and  Enforcement  of  Security  Interest  Act,  2002  and/or 
regulations/guidelines as provided by the Reserve Bank of India and are proposed to be 
listed on a recognised stock exchange under these regulations;]11  

(q) “Schedule” means a Schedule appended to these regulations;  
(r)  “securitisation”  means  acquisition  of  debt  or  receivables  by  any  special  purpose  distinct 
entity  from  any  originator  or  originators  for  the  purpose  of  issuance  of  securitised  debt 
instruments to investors based on such debt or receivables and such issuance;  

(s) “securitised  debt  instrument”  means  any  certificate  or  instrument,  by  whatever  name 
called,  of  the  nature  referred  to  in  sub-clause  (ie)  of  clause  (h)  of  section  2  of  the  Act 
issued by a special purpose distinct entity; 

 
from  the  public  or  purchase  of  any  securitised  debt  instruments  of  a  scheme  formulated  under  these 
regulations;” 
8 Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
9 Ibid 
10 Ibid 
11  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under : 
 “(p) “scheme” means a scheme for issue of securitised debt instruments in accordance with these regulations;” 

12[(sa)  “security  receipt”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  assigned  to  it  in  clause  (zg)  of  sub-
section    (1)  of  section  2  of  Securitisation  and  Reconstruction  of  Financial  Assets  and 
Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002;]  

(t)  “servicer” means any person appointed by the special purpose distinct  entity  and who is 
responsible  for  the  management  or  collection  of  the  asset  pool  or  making  allocations  or 
distributions  to  holders  of  the  securtitised  debt  instrument  in  accordance  with  these 
regulations  but  does  not  include  a  trustee  for  the  issuer  if  the  trustee  receives  such 
allocations or distributions;  

(u) “special  purpose  distinct  entity”  means  a  trust  which  acquires  debt  or receivables  out  of 
funds  mobilized  by  it  by  issuance  of  securitised  debt  instruments  through  one  or  more 
schemes, and includes any trust set up by the National Housing Bank under the National 
Housing Bank Act, 1987 (53 of 1987) or by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural 
Development under the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981 
(61 of 1981);  

(v) [“sponsor” means –  

(i)  any  person  who  establishes  or  promotes  a  special  purpose  distinct  entity  for  the 

purposes of issuance of Securitised debt instrument; or 

(ii)  an  asset  reconstruction  company  who  has  established/promoted  a  trust  which  has 

issued security receipts;]13 

(w)  “trustee” means a trustee of a special purpose distinct entity;  
14[(wa)  “valuer”  means  any  person  who  is  a  "registered  valuer"  under  section  247  of  the 
Companies Act, 2013;] 
(x)  “working days” means working days of the Board.  

 

15[(2) Words and expressions not defined in these Regulations, but defined in or under the Act 
or the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) or the regulations made 
thereunder or the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or the Securitisation and Reconstruction 
of  Financial  Assets  and  Enforcement  of  Security  Interest  Act,  2002  (54  of  2002)  or  any 
applicable rules or regulations made by the Reserve Bank of India from time to time, or any 
statutory  modification  or  re-enactment  thereof,  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  have  been 
assigned to them by or under those enactments, unless the context requires otherwise.]  
 
Applicability.   
3. These regulations shall apply to-  

 

12 Inserted by  the  SEBI (Public  Offer  and  Listing of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
13  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under :  
“(v) “sponsor” means any person who establishes or promotes a special purpose distinct entity;” 
14 Inserted by  the  SEBI (Public  Offer  and  Listing of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
15  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its substitution, the regulation read as under :  
“(2) Words and expressions not defined in these Regulations, but defined in or under the Act or the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) or the regulations made thereunder or the Companies Act, 
1956  (1  of  1956)  or  the  Securitisation  and  Reconstruction  of  Financial  Assets  and  Enforcement  of  Security 
Interest  Act,  2002  (54  of  2002)  or  any  statutory  modification  or  re-enactment  thereof,  shall  have  the  same 
meaning as have been assigned to them by or under those enactments, unless the context requires otherwise 

(a) public offers of securitised debt instruments; [ ]16   
(b) to listing of securitised debt instruments issued to public or any person(s), on a recognised 

stock exchange; [or]17 

[(c) to listing of security receipts issued to qualified buyer(s) on a recognized stock exchange 

in terms of Chapter VIIA, Chapter VIII and Chapter X.]18 

 

CHAPTER II  

REGISTRATION OF 

TRUSTEES  

Eligibility criteria for trustees.  
4.  (1)  On  and from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  no  person  shall  make  a  public 
offer  of  securitised  debt  instruments  or  seek  listing  for  such  securitised  debt  instruments 
unless –  
(a) it is constituted as a special purpose distinct entity;  
(b) all its trustees are registered with the Board under these regulations; and  
(c) it complies with all applicable provisions of these regulations and the Act.  

 

(2)  The  requirement  of  obtaining  registration  shall  not  apply  to  the  following  persons,  who 
may act as trustees of special purpose distinct entities, namely:-  
(a) any person registered as a debenture trustee with the Board;  
(b) any  person  registered  as  a  securitisation  company  or  a  reconstruction  company  with  the 
Reserve  Bank  of  India  under  the  Securitisation  and  Reconstruction  of  Financial  Assets 
and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002);  

(c) the  National  Housing  Bank  established  by  the  National  Housing  Bank  Act,  1987  (53  of 

1987);  

(d) the  National  Bank  for  Agriculture  and  Rural  Development  established  by  the  National 

Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development Act, 1981 (61 of 1981):  
 
Provided  that  the  aforesaid  persons  and  special  purpose  distinct  entities  in  respect  of 
which they are trustees shall comply with all other provisions of these regulations:  
Provided further that the provisions of these regulations shall not apply to the National 
Housing Bank and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development to the extent 
of inconsistency with the provisions of their respective Acts. 
 

19[(e) any scheduled commercial bank other than a regional rural bank;  
(f)  any public financial Institution as defined under clause (72) of section 2 of the Companies 

Act, 2013; and  

(g) any other person as may be specified by Board]  
 
 20[(2A) An applicant seeking registration to act as a trustee shall,-  

 

16 Omitted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. Prior to its omission, it read as “or”. 
17 Inserted by  the  SEBI (Public  Offer  and  Listing of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
18 Ibid. 
19Inserted  by the  SEBI (Public  Offer and Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments) (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2015 w.e.f. April 9, 2015. 
20 Ibid. 

An application for registration shall be made by the trustee to the Board in Form A of 

(a) have a networth of not less than two crore rupees.  
Explanation.─ For  the  purposes  of  this regulation,  "networth"  means  the  aggregate  value  of 
paid  up  share  capital  plus  free  reserves  (excluding  reserves  created  out  of  revaluation) 
reduced  by  the  aggregate  value  of  accumulated  losses  and  deferred  expenditure  not  written 
off;  
(b) have in its employment a minimum of two persons who, between them, have atleast five 
years experience in activities related to securitisation and atleast one among them shall have a 
professional qualification in law from any university or institution recognised by the Central 
Government or any State Government or a foreign university:  
Provided that the above-said requirements are not applicable on the National Housing Bank 
established by the National Housing  Bank Act, 1987 and National Bank for Agriculture and 
Rural Development established by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development 
Act, 1981 (61 of 1981).]  
 
(3) 
Schedule I along with non-refundable application fees as specified in Schedule II.  
(4) 
Any  application  which  is  not  complete  in  all  respects  and  does  not  conform  to  the 
instructions  specified  in  Form  A  of  Schedule I  or  which  is  incorrect, false  or  misleading  in 
nature shall be liable to be rejected:  
Provided that before rejecting any such application, the Board shall give an opportunity to the 
applicant to remove the objections pointed out by the Board within the time specified by the 
Board.  
(5) 
The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish  such  further  information  or 
explanation as is necessary in the opinion of the Board to take a decision on the application.   
 
Factors for consideration  
5.  While considering an application made under regulation  4, the Board may have regard to 
all relevant factors, including the following, namely:-  
(a) 
where applicable those of its promoters and directors;  
(b) 
where  the  applicant  is  a  body  corporate,  its  objects  as  per  the  memorandum  of 
association or other constitutional document, composition of its board of directors and other 
relevant matters;  
(c) 
whether  the  applicant  has  adequate  infrastructure  to  ensure  proper  servicing  of  the 
securitisation  transaction;  adherence  to  the  terms  of  the  transaction  documents  by  the 
originator, underwriter, credit enhancement provider, liquidity provider, and other parties to 
the securitisation transaction, and ensure compliance with the provisions of the Act and these 
regulations;   
(d) 
a position to comply with the requirements of these regulations;  
(e) 
or indirectly connected with the applicant was rejected by the Board;  
(f) 
whether the applicant, its promoters and directors are fit and proper persons in terms 
of  the  criteria  specified  in  respect  of  the  intermediaries  registered  under  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992).  
 
 
 

whether any previous application for grant of certificate made by any person directly 

the  applicant’s  track  record,  professional  competence  and  general  reputation  and, 

whether the applicant and the special purpose distinct entity have complied with or in 

The Board shall, if it decides to grant registration to the applicant, send intimation to 

Upon payment of registration fees, the Board shall grant a certificate to the applicant 

Procedure for granting registration, etc.  
6.  (1) Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, the provisions relating to procedure 
of consideration of application, grant of registration, powers of the Board including the power 
to  seek  further  information,  verify  the  information  furnished  by  the  applicant,  conditions  of 
registration,  effect  of  refusal  of  grant  of  certificate,  etc.;as  applicable  to  any  intermediary 
shall apply to an applicant under these regulations.  
(2) 
the applicant for payment of the registration fees specified in Schedule II.  
(3) 
in Form B of Schedule I.  
(4) 
Subject to the provisions of the Act, these regulations, conditions of certificate and the 
obligations  of  payments  of  fees  the  registration  granted  by  the  Board  to  a  trustee  shall  be 
permanent unless suspended or cancelled by the Board.  
 
 
Conditions of registration.  
7.  Any  certificate  granted  under  regulation  6  shall  be  subject  to  the  following  conditions 
being complied with by the trustee, namely:-  
(a) 
of the Board for continuing to act as such after the change;  
(b) 
it shall pay the registration fees and annual fees in  the manner provided in Schedule 
II;  (c)  it  shall  take  adequate  steps  for  redressal  of  grievances  of  the  investors  within  one 
month  of  the  date  of  the  receipt  of  the  complaint  and  keep  the  Board  informed  about  the 
number, nature and other particulars of the complaints received;  
(d)  it shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations in respect of the regulated 

where it proposes to change its management or, control , it shall obtain prior approval 

activities carried on by the special purpose distinct entity;  

(e)  it shall forthwith inform the Board, if any information or particulars previously submitted 

to the Board is found to be misleading in any material respect or false;  

(f)  it shall forthwith inform the Board, of any material change in the information or  
particulars furnished, which may have a bearing on the certificate granted to it; 
(g) it shall abide by the Code of Conduct specified in Schedule III.  
 
Procedure where application is rejected.  
8. (1) Where an application for grant of a certificate does not conform to the eligibility criteria 
and  other  requirements  as  set  out  in  these  regulations,  the  Board  may  reject  the  application 
and communicate the decision with reasons in writing:  
Provided that before rejecting the application, the applicant  shall be given an opportunity  to 
remove within a reasonable time specified by the Board, such objections as may be indicated 
by the Board to the applicant in writing.   
(2)  Where  an  application  is  rejected  for  the  reason  that  it  contains  false  or  misleading 
information,  no  such  opportunity  shall  be  given  and  the  applicant  shall  not  make  any 
application  for  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  under  these  regulations  or  any  other 
regulations for a period of one year from the date of such rejection.  
 
 
 
 
 

CONSTITUTION AND MANAGEMENT OF SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTINCT  

CHAPTER III  

ENTITIES AND INCIDENTAL MATTERS  

 

Permissible structures for special purpose distinct entity.  
9.  (1)  The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  be  constituted  in  the  form  of  a  trust  the 
constitutional  document  whereof  entitles  the  trustees  to  issue  securitised  debt  instruments: 
Provided  that  originator  or  any  of  its  associates  shall  not  exercise  control  over  the  special 
purpose distinct entity and its trustees.  
(2) The instrument of trust, whether trust deed or any other constitutional document, shall be 

executed by the sponsor in favour of the trustees named in such instrument.  

(3) The  instrument  of  trust  shall  contain  such  clauses  as  are  mentioned  in  Schedule  IV  and 
such  other  clauses  which  are  necessary  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  in  the 
securitised debt instruments.  

A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  not  raise  any  moneys  in  the  form  of  debt  or 

The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  the  trustee  shall  adopt  internal  procedures 

(4) No instrument of trust shall contain a clause which has the effect of –  
(i)  limiting  or  extinguishing  the  obligations  and  liabilities  of  the  trustees  or  the  special 
purpose  distinct  entity  in  relation  to  any  scheme  or  the  rights  or  interests  of  investors;  (ii) 
limiting or restricting or waiving the provisions of the Act, these regulations and circulars or 
guidelines issued by the Board;  
(iii) indemnifying the trustees or the special purpose distinct entity for loss or damage caused 
to the investors by their act of negligence or commission or omission.  
(5) 
designed to avoid conflict of interest.  
(6) 
issue any debt securities other than through issue of securitised debt instruments:  
Provided  that  the  restriction  contained  in  this  sub-regulation  shall  not  apply  to  issue  of 
security receipts.  
(7) 
A special purpose distinct  entity  shall be entitled, in  terms of the trust  deed or other 
constitutional  document,  to  segregate  the  debt  or  receivables  out  of  the  asset  pool  for  the 
purpose of servicing of any securitised debt instrument in accordance with the scheme.  
(8) 
The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  not  be  dissolved  until  the  securitised  debt 
instruments issued under all its schemes are fully redeemed or written off in accordance with 
their terms of issue.  
(9) 
Trustees who are nominees of the sponsor or the originator or who are associated in 
any manner with the sponsor or the originator or with a company in the same management as 
the sponsor or originator shall not constitute more than one half of the Board of Trustees of 
the special purpose distinct entity, as the case may be.  
(10)  Where the special purpose distinct entity proposes to launch multiple schemes, - (a) it 
shall  be  capable  in  terms  of  the  trust  deed  or  other  constitutional  document,  of  segregating 
multiple securitisation schemes; and  
(b) the terms of issue of securitised debt instruments proposed to be issued under each scheme 
or each series of such instruments shall restrict  the rights of investors therein to the relevant 
asset pool alone.  
(11)  The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  not  carry  on  any  activity  other  than  regulated 
activities and those incidental thereto and it shall not engage in:  
(a) business of lending or investment except making passive financial investments required in 

accordance with the scheme;  

(b) activities of an asset management company or portfolio manager or a mutual fund:  

Provided that the restriction provided in clause (a) shall not apply to –  
(i)  any  trust  or  other  body  promoted  by the  National  Housing  Bank,  in  respect  of  activities 
undertaken by it in terms of the National Housing Bank Act, 1987 (53 of 1987); (ii) any trust 
or  other  body  promoted  by  the  National  Bank  for  Agriculture  and  Rural  Development,  in 
respect of activities undertaken by it in terms of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural 
Development Act, 1981 (61 of 1981);  
(iii)  any  trust  set  up  by  a  securitisation  company  or  reconstruction  company  in  respect  of 
activities  undertaken  by  it  in  terms  of  the  Securitisation  and  Reconstruction  of  Financial 
Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (54 of 2002);  
(iv)any securitisation undertaken by a special purpose distinct  entity, which involves private 
placement  of  any  instruments  representing  securitised  debt  which  are  not  proposed  to  be 
listed on any recognised stock exchange.  
 
Assignment of debt or receivables.  
10.  (1)  The  originator  and  the  trustee  shall  ensure  in  respect  of  the  debt  or  receivables 
assigned to the special purpose distinct entity that the following conditions are fulfilled:  
(a) 
the  debt  or  receivables  generates  or  is  reasonably  expected  to  generate  identifiable 
cash  flows  for  the  purpose  of  servicing  the  securitised  debt  instruments  in  accordance  with 
the scheme;  
(b) 
assets prior to the securitisation;  
(c) 
the  debt  or  receivables  is  free  from  any  encumbrances  or  impediments  to  their  free 
transfer or the transfer of the rights attaching thereto and their transfer does not constitute an 
event of default or acceleration trigger under any agreement;  
(d) 
the necessary regulatory or contractual permissions or consents have been obtained in 
order  to  effect  the  transfer  of  such  debt  or  receivables  from  the  originator  to  the  special 
purpose distinct entity;   
(e) 
to exercise the right of set-off in relation to such assets;  
(f) 
transaction and solely on commercial considerations; and  
(g) 
receivables are duly adhered to.  
(2) 
The special purpose distinct entity and the originator shall take all necessary steps to 
ensure  that  the  debt  or  receivables  acquired  by  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  are  duly 
assigned in its name and are legally realizable by it.  
(3) 
No  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  acquire  any  debt  or  receivables  from  any 
originator  which  is  part  of  the  same  group  or  which  is  under  the  same  management  as  the 
trustee.  
Explanation: For the purposes of sub-regulation (3), -  
(a) 
two persons shall be deemed to be “part of the same group” if they belong to the same 
group within the meaning of clause (ef) of section 2 of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade 
Practices  Act,  1969  (54  of  1969)  or  if  they  own  “inter-connected  undertakings”  within  the 
meaning of clause (g) of section 2 of that Act;  
(b) 
subsection (1B) of section 370 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).  

the originator has not done or omitted to do anything which enables any of his debtors 

the  expression  “under  the  same  management”  shall  have  the  meaning  derived  from 

the originator has a valid enforceable interest in the assets and in the cash flow of the 

the  debt  or  receivables  is  transferred  at  a  price  arrived  at  through  an  arms’  length 

any  representations  and  warranties  made  by  the  originator  regarding  the  debt  or 

supervise  the  implementation  of the  covenants  regarding  creation  of  security for  the  

do  such  acts  as  are  necessary  in  the  event  the  security  becomes  enforceable  and 

(4) 
The securitisation transaction shall be structured in such a manner so as to minimise 
the risk of the asset pool being consolidated with the assets of the originator or the sponsor, in 
the event of insolvency or winding up of either of them.  
(5) 
The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  its  trustees  shall  ensure  that  the  debt  and 
receivables assigned to it are through a genuine transaction amounting to a true sale and are 
legally realizable by it and the special purpose distinct entity shall be remote from the risk of 
bankruptcy, insolvency and winding up of the originator, sponsor and any other entity.  
 
Obligations of trustees  
11. (1) A trustee shall carry out his duties and perform his functions under these regulations, 
the trust deed or other document, with due care and diligence.   
(2)  The  trustees  shall  ensure  that  the  covenants  in  the  trust  deed  and  any  other  transaction 
document are complied with by the concerned parties.  
21[(3) A trustee shall,-  
(a) 
securitised debt instruments;  
(b) 
supervise the enforcement of the security in the interest of the investors;  
(c) 
carry out such acts as are necessary for resolving the grievances of the investors and 
for  the  protection  of  interest  of  the  investors;  ensure  on  a  continuous  basis  that  the  trust 
property  of  a  particular  scheme/tranche  is  available  at  all  times  to  pay  the  securitised  debt 
instruments  holders  of  that  particular  scheme/tranche;  (e)  exercise  due  diligence  to  ensure 
compliance  by  the  originators,  with  the  listing  agreements  (if  applicable),  the  trust  deed  or 
any  other  transaction  document  and  if  the  originator  is  a  banking  company  or  non-banking 
financial company as defined in the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, trustee shall ensure that 
it has complied with the guidelines prescribed for securitisation by Reserve Bank of India;  
(f) take appropriate measures for protecting the interest  of the investors including informing 
the  board  about  any  action,  legal  proceeding,  etc.,  initiated  against  it  in  respect  of  any 
material breach or noncompliance by it, of any law, rules, regulations, directions of the Board 
or  of  any  other  regulatory  body;  (g)  ensure  that  the  securitised  debt  instruments  have  been 
repaid or redeemed in accordance with the provisions and conditions under which they were 
offered to the investors;  
(h) 
underlying asset pool, atleast on quarterly basis;  
(i) 
obligations and the actions taken thereof, atleast on quarterly basis;  
(j) 
obtain  a  certificate  from  the  auditor(s)  of  originator  regarding  the  disclosures  of 
underlying  asset  pool  assigned  to  the  securitization  trust,  as  made  by  the  originator,  on 
quarterly basis;  
(k) 
share  such  reports  and  auditors  certificate  as  received  from  the  originator  or  the 
auditor(s)  of  originator,  with  the  credit  rating  agency  which  is  rating  the  securitised  debt 
instrument; (l) call a meeting of all the investors on a requisition, in writing signed by at least 
one-tenth of investors in value for the time being outstanding or at the occurrence of an event, 
which constitutes a servicer default or which in the opinion of the trustees affects the interest 
of the investors;  

call  for  periodic  reports  from  the  originator  regarding  the  performance  of  the 

communicate  to  the  investors  regarding  the  compliance  by  the  servicer  with  its 

21Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. April 9, 2015. 

 

(m)  maintain  the  net  worth  as  per  the  requirements  specified  in  these  regulations  on  a 
continuous basis and inform  the Board immediately  in respect  of any shortfall in the net 
worth and take necessary corrective action to restore the net worth within a period of six 
months;  

(n) ensure  that  any  change  in  registration  status  or  any  administrative,  civil  or  penal  action 
taken  by  Board  or  any  material  change  in  financial  position  which  may  adversely  affect 
the interests of investors is promptly informed to the investors;  

(o) not  relinquish  responsibility  as  trustee  in  respect  of  the  issue,  unless  and  until  another 

trustee is appointed in its place;  

(p) have necessary infrastructure to discharge its duties including the following:  
(i) collecting information and reports from servicers/originator;  
(ii) 

generating  cash  flow  reports,  payment  reports  and  meet  all  reporting  requirements 
required under the Board's or Reserve Bank of India's guidelines/circulars;  (iii) recording 
investor information;  

entering  and  maintaining  data  for  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity,  including  cash 

issuing  cheques/demand  drafts  or  generating  RTGS/NEFT  requests  etc.,  for  interest 

sufficient access controls to ensure confidentiality of data; (vii) sufficient systems for 

(iv) 
flows, audited financials, taxation aspects etc.;  
(v) 
and principal payments;  
(vi) 
backup and disaster recovery.  
(q) appoint a compliance officer for performing duties including:  
(i)  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  acts,  rules  and  regulations,  notifications,  guidelines, 
instructions,  etc.,  issued  by  the  Board,  Central  Government  and  State  Government(s);  (ii) 
redressal of investors grievances.]  

 
 

CHAPTER IV  

SCHEMES OF SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTINCT ENTITIES  

 

Launching of schemes.  
12.  (1)  A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  may  raise  funds  by  making  an  offer  of  securitised 
debt instruments through formulating schemes in accordance with these regulations.  
(2)  Where  there  are  multiple  schemes,  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  maintain 
separate and distinct accounts in respect of each such scheme and shall not commingle asset 
pools or realisations of a scheme with those of other schemes.  
(3) 
A special  purpose distinct  entity  and trustees thereof shall ensure that realisations of 
debts  and  receivables  are  held  and  correctly  applied  towards redemption  of  securitised  debt 
instruments  issued  under  the  respective  schemes  or  towards  payment  of  returns  on  such 
instruments or towards other permissible expenditure of the scheme.   
(4) 
clean -up call option by the special purpose distinct entity, subject to adequate disclosures.  
(5) 
No  expenses  shall  be  charged  to  the  scheme  in  excess  of  the  allowable  expenses  as 
may be specified in the scheme and any such expenditure, if incurred, shall be borne by the 
trustees.  
 
Obligation to redeem securitised debt instruments.  
13.  (1)  The  trustee  and  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  ensure  timely  payment  of 
interest  and  redemption  amounts  to  the  investors  in  terms  of  the  offer  document  or  other 

The  terms  of  issue  of  the  securitised  debt  instruments  may  provide for  exercise  of  a 

terms of issue of the securitised debt instruments out  of the realisations from the asset  pool, 
credit enhancer or liquidity provider. 
(2) 
The  trustee  shall  ensure  that  the  servicer  adopts  such  prudent  measures  as  may  be 
expected under the origination documents to recover the dues from the obligors in the event 
of any default in any portion thereof.  
(3) 
The  expected  period  of  maturity  of  each  scheme  and  the  possibility  of  extension  or 
shortening  of  such  period  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  offer  document  together  with  the  likely 
circumstances in which such extension or shortening may take place. 
 
 
 Credit enhancement and liquidity facilities.  
14.  (1)  A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  may  opt  for  credit  enhancement  of  the  asset  pool, 
subject to making full disclosures of the arrangements in the offer document or the particulars 
submitted to the recognised stock exchange.  
(2) A special purpose distinct entity may avail the services of a liquidity provider, subject to 
making full disclosures of the arrangements in the offer document or the particulars submitted 
to the recognised stock exchange.  
 
Servicers.  
15. (1) A special purpose distinct entity may appoint either the originator or any other person 
as servicer in respect of any of its schemes, subject to the following, namely:- (a) the trustees 
shall  ensure  that  the  servicer  keeps  proper  accounts  in  respect  of  the  activities  delegated  to 
him;  
(b) the trustees shall ensure that the servicer has adequate operational systems and resources 
to administer the asset pool in relation to a securitisation transaction.  
(2)  Servicer  may  be  appointed  by  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  to  do  all  or  any  of  the 
following, namely:-  
(i) to coordinate with the obligors, manage the asset pool and collections therefrom;  
(ii) 

administer  the  cash  flows  of  such  asset  pool,  distributions  to  investors;  and 

reinvestment, if any, in accordance with the scheme; and (iii) manage incidental matters.  

(3)  Where  a  special  purpose  distinct  entity  appoints  the  originator  as  servicer,  it  shall  adopt 
internal procedures designed to avoid conflict of interest.  
 
Accounts.  
16. (1) Without prejudice to provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), or any other 
applicable  law,  a  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  maintain  or  cause  to  be  maintained 
proper  accounts  and  records  to  enable  a  true  and  fair  view  to  be  formed  of  its  assets, 
liabilities,  income  and  expenditure  and  those  of  all  its  schemes  and  to  comply  with  the 
disclosure requirements of these regulations and other applicable laws.  
(2) 
The accounts of a scheme shall be maintained in such a manner so as to disclose as on 
the most recent pay out date, the financial position of the scheme and shall in particular give 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the scheme.  
(3) 
The  accounts  of  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  all  its  schemes  shall  be 
maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and having regard to 
the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India or as may be specified 
by the Board in respect of accounting for schemes.  
 

Audit.  
17.  (1) The accounts of the schemes formulated by a special purpose distinct  entity  shall be 
audited by a chartered accountant in practice within the meaning of the  
Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (38 of 1949) at such frequency as may be specified in the 
listing agreement or conditions.  
(2) Such audit shall be conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. 
(3) The scope of such audit may be specified by the Board. 
 
 Maintenance of records.  
18. (1) A special purpose distinct entity shall maintain or cause to be maintained other records 
and  documents,  including  a  register  of  holders  of  securitised  debt  instruments,  for  each 
scheme so as to explain its transactions and its accounts:  
Provided  that  the  register  of  beneficial  owners  maintained  by  a  depository  in  respect  of 
securitised  debt  instruments  held  in  dematerialised  form  with  it  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a 
register of holders of securitised debt instruments for the purposes of these regulations.  
(2) 
A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  intimate  to  the  Board  the  places  where  the 
records  and  documents  maintained  under  sub-regulation  (1)  and  the  accounts  maintained 
under regulation 16 are kept.  
(3) 
The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  maintain  its  books  of  account,  records  and 
other  documents  in  respect  of  its  schemes  for  a  minimum  period  of  eight  years  from  the 
redemption of all instruments issued under the scheme.  
 
Holding of originator.  
19.  (1)  No  originator  shall  at  any  time  subscribe  to  or  hold  securitised  debt  instruments  in 
excess  of  twenty  per  cent  of  the  total  securitised  debt  instruments  issued  by  the  special 
purpose distinct entity in a particular scheme.  
(2) 
Nothing  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  apply  to  the  holdings  of  an  originator 
acquired  on  account  of  underwriting  of  a  public  issue  of  securitised  debt  instruments  or  in 
pursuance of an arrangement for credit enhancement:  
Provided that the possibilities of such holdings are disclosed in the offer document or in the 
listing particulars.  
(3) 
classes of securitised debt instruments which are offered to the public or listed.  
 
Winding up of schemes.  
20. A scheme may be wound up in the event of the following:  
(a)  when  the  securitised  debt  instruments  have  been  fully  redeemed  as  per  the  scheme;  (b) 
upon legal maturity as stated in the terms of issue of the securitised debt instrument: Provided 
that  if  any  debt  or receivable  is  outstanding  on  legal  maturity, the  trustees  shall  dispose  off 
the same in accordance with the scheme and distribute the proceeds; (c) by vote of investors 
by a special resolution as provided in regulation 34.   

For  the  removal  of  doubts,  it  is  clarified  that  sub-regulation  (1)  applies  only  to  the 

 
 

CHAPTER V  

PUBLIC OFFER OF SECURITISED DEBT INSTRUMENTS  

 
 

Offer to the public.   
21. (1) This Chapter shall be applicable to offer of securitised debt instruments 
to the public.  
(2) 
Any  reference  in  these  regulations  to  offering  securitised  debt  instruments  to  the 
public  shall  be  construed  as  including  a  reference  to  offering  them  to  any  section  of  the 
public.  
(3) 
offer can properly be regarded, in all the circumstances –  
(a) as  not  being  likely  to  result,  directly  or  indirectly,  in  the  securitised  debt  instruments 
becoming available for subscription or purchase by persons other than those receiving the 
offer;  

No offer shall be treated as made to the public by virtue of sub-regulation  (1), if the 

Such offer document shall be filed along with the minimum filing fee as mentioned in 

(b) otherwise as being the domestic concern of the persons making and receiving the offer.  
(4) Notwithstanding sub-regulation (2), any offer of securitised debt instruments made to fifty 
or more persons in a financial year shall always be deemed to have been made to the public: 
Provided that sub-regulation (3) applies only in respect of securitised debt instruments which 
belong to the same tranche and which are pari passu in all respects.  
Explanation: For the purposes of sub-regulation (4), the term “financial year” shall mean the 
period of twelve months commencing from the 1st day of April in any year.  
 
Submission of draft offer document and filing of final offer document.  
22. (1) No special purpose distinct entity or trustee thereof shall make an offer of securitised 
debt  instruments  to  the  public  unless  it  files  a  draft  offer  document  with  the  Board  at  least 
fifteen working days before the proposed opening of the issue.  
(2) 
Schedule II:  
Provided that the balance filing fee provided in Schedule II shall be paid to the Board within 
seven days of closure of the public offer.  
(3) 
If the Board specifies  any changes to  be made in the offer document within  the said 
period  of  fifteen  working  days,  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  trustee  thereof  shall 
carry out such changes in the draft offer document prior to filing it with the designated stock 
exchange under regulation 35 or issuing it.  
(4) 
The  final  offer  document  shall  be  filed  with  the  Board  and  with  every  recognised 
stock  exchange  to  which  an  application  for  listing  of  the  securitised  debt  instruments  is 
proposed to be made prior to its issuance to public.  
 
Arrangements for dematerialisation.  
23.  (1) Prior to  submitting the draft  offer document with  the Board under regulation  22, the 
special purpose distinct entity shall enter into an arrangement with a registered depository for 
dematerialisation  of  the  securitised  debt  instruments  that  are  proposed  to  be  issued  to  the 
public.  
(2) 
securitised debt instruments either in the physical form or in dematerialised form.  
(3) 
holders of physical instruments.  
 

The special purpose distinct entity shall give an option to the investors to receive the 

The holders of dematerialised instruments shall have the same rights and liabilities as 

 
 

All credit ratings obtained by a special purpose distinct entity on the securitised debt 

Mandatory listing.  
 24.  A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  desirous  of  making  an  offer  of  securitised  debt 
instruments to the public shall make an application for listing to one or more recognized stock 
exchanges in terms of sub-section (2) of section 17A of the Act.  
 
Credit rating.  
25. (1) No special purpose distinct entity shall offer securitised debt instruments to the public 
unless credit rating is obtained from not less than two registered credit rating agencies.  
(2) 
instruments shall be disclosed in the offer document, including unaccepted credit ratings.  
(3) 
A  credit  rating  agency  rating  the  securitised  debt  instruments  issued  by  a  special 
purpose  distinct  entity  shall  include  reference  to  the  following  in  the  rating  rationale:  (a) 
quality of the asset pool and the strength of cash flows;  
(b) payment structure;  
(c) adequacy of credit enhancements;  
(d) originator profile;  
(e) risks and concerns for investors and mitigating factors;  
(f)  quality and experience of the servicer;  
(g) terms of the servicer contract;  
(h) provision for appointment of back-up servicer, if any; (i) any other relevant information.  

 

Contents of offer document.  
26.  (1) An offer document issued by a special purpose distinct  entity or trustee thereof shall 
contain  all  material  information  which  is  true,  fair  and  adequate  for  an  investorto  make 
informed investment decision and shall also disclose the matters specified in Schedule V.  
(2)  An  offer  document  shall  not  include  a  statement  purporting  to  be  made  by  an  expert 
unless –  
(a) he  has  given  his  written  consent  to  the  offer  document  being  issued  with  the  statement 

included in the form and context in which it is included; 

(b) such consent is not revoked by him prior to its filing with the Board; and  
(c) a statement that he has given and has not  withdrawn his consent  as aforesaid  appears in 

the offer document.  

Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  this regulation  “expert”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  in 
sub-section (2) of section 59 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).  
 
Prohibition of misstatements in the offer document.  
27. (1) An offer document or any report or memorandum issued by a special purpose distinct 
entity in connection with an offer of securitised debt instruments shall not contain any false or 
misleading statement.  
(2)  An  offer  document  shall  not  omit  disclosure  of  any  material  fact  which  may  make  the 
statements  made  therein,  in  light  of  the  circumstances  under  which  they  are  made, 
misleading.  
 
Underwriting of the issue.  
28. 
underwriter registered with the Board. 
 

A  public  offer  made  by  a  special  purpose  distinct  entity  may  be  underwritten  by  an 

No public offer of securitised debt instruments shall remain open for more than thirty 

(1)  The  offer  document  shall  disclose  the  minimum  subscription  it  seeks  to  raise 

Offer period.   
29. 
days.  
 
Minimum subscription.  
30. 
under the scheme.  
(2) 
No  securitised  debt  instruments  shall  be  allotted  under  the  public  offer  unless 
subscriptions  have  been  received  in  respect  of  the  minimum  number  of  securitised  debt 
instruments which will constitute minimum subscription.  
(3) 
In  the  event  of  non  receipt  of  minimum  subscription  or  refusal  of  listing  by  any 
recognised  stock  exchange,  all  application  moneys  received  in  the  public  offer  shall  be 
refunded forthwith to the applicants.  
Explanation:  For  the  purposes  of  this  regulation  and  Schedule  V,  “minimum  subscription” 
refers to the amount which, in the opinion of the directors of the originator and trustees of the 
special purpose distinct entity, must be raised by issue of securitised debt instruments.  
 
 
Allotment and other obligations.  
31. (1) The securitised debt instruments shall be allotted to the investors within the following 
time periods:-  
(a) in case of dematerialized securitised debt instruments –  
within five days of closure of the offer;  
(b) in  case  of  securitised  debt  instruments  in  the  physical  form  –  the  certificates  shall  be 

dispatched within eight days of closure of the offer.  

The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  dispatch  refund  orders  to  unsuccessful  or 

No  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  retain  any  oversubscription  received  in  any 

(2) 
public offer.  
(3) 
In  the  event  of  over-subscription,  the  allotment  shall  be  made  as  per  the  basis  of 
allotment  finalized  in  consultation  with  the  recognized  stock  exchanges  to  which  an 
application for listing was made.  
(4) 
partially successful applicants within eight days of closure of the offer.  
(5) 
In a case where the issue proceeds become liable to be  refunded in accordance with 
the disclosures made in the offer document, the special purpose distinct entity shall dispatch 
refund orders to the applicants within eight days of closure of the offer.  
(6)  Where  the  allotment  is  not  made  within  the  time  period  mentioned  in  clause  (a)  of 
subregulation  (1)  or  where  the  certificates  are  not  dispatched  within  the  time  mentioned  in 
clause (b) of sub-regulation (1), the special purpose distinct entity and every trustee thereof, 
and where any such trustee is a body corporate, every director thereof, who is in default shall, 
on and from the expiry of such period, be jointly and severally liable to pay interest at the rate 
of fifteen per cent. per annum to the concerned applicants.  
(7)  Where  the  refund  orders  are  not  dispatched  within  the  time  mentioned  in  sub-
regulations (4) or (5), the special purpose distinct entity and every trustee thereof, and where 
any  such  trustee  is  a  body  corporate,  every  director  thereof,  who  is  in  default  shall,  on  and 
from  the  expiry  of  the  eighth  day,  be  jointly  and  severally  liable  to  repay  that  money  with 
interest at the rate of fifteen per cent per annum.  

Sub-regulations (6) and (7) shall have effect without prejudice to any other provisions 

(8) 
of these regulations or any other law. 
22[(9)  Credit  to  demat  accounts  of  the  allottees  shall  be  made  by  the  issuer  within  two 
working days from the date of allotment.] 
  
Post issue obligations.  
32. 
to the Board or to the investors, as directed by the Board from time to time.   

The special purpose distinct entity shall file such reports and furnish such information 

 
 

CHAPTER VI  
RIGHTS OF 
INVESTORS  

 
Transferability of securitised debt instruments.  
33. 
Subject  to  the  provisions  of regulation  38,  the  securitised  debt  instruments issued  to 
the public or listed on a recognized stock exchange in accordance with these regulations shall 
be freely transferable.  
 
Rights of investors in securities issued by special purpose distinct entity.  
34. 
(1) The trust deed or other instrument comprising the terms of issue of the securitised 
debt  instruments  issued  by  a  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  provide  that  investors 
holding such securitised debt instruments have such beneficial interest in the underlying debt 
or receivables as may have been conferred by the scheme.  
(2) In the event of failure of the special purpose distinct entity to redeem any securitised debt 
instruments  offered  through  an  offer  document  or  listed,  within  the  time  and  in 
accordance  with  the  conditions  stated  in  the  offer  document  or  other  terms  of issue,  the 
investors  holding  not  less  than  ten  per  cent  in  nominal  value  of  such  securitised  debt 
instruments shall be entitled to call a meeting of all such investors.  

(3) In such meeting, the investors may move a motion to–  
(a) call  upon  the  trustee  and  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  to  wind  up  the  scheme  and 

distribute the realisations;  

(b) remove the trustee;  
(c) appoint a new trustee in place of the one removed under clause (b):  
Provided  that  any  such  decision  shall  be  taken  by  means  of  a  special  resolution  of  the 
investors  of  the  scheme  and  sections  179  and  189  of  the  Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of  1956) 
shall mutatis mutandis apply to such special resolution:  
Provided further that the new trustee appointed under clause (c) is registered with the Board 
under these regulations or is exempted from such registration.  
(4) 
carry out the resolutions passed by the investors under sub-regulation (3).  
(5) 
Any  reasonable  expenses  incurred  in  calling  and  holding  a  meeting  under  sub-
regulation (3) and any reasonable expenses incurred by the trustee or the new trustee, as the 
case  may  be,  in  winding  up  the  scheme  and  incidental  activities  shall  be  met  from  or 
reimbursed out of realisations from the asset pool.  

The  trustee  and  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  take  all  reasonable  steps  to 

22 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 1-12-2015. 

 

The  terms  of  issue  of  securitised  debt  instruments  shall  not  be  adversely  varied 

(6) 
without the consent of the investors.  
(7) 
For  purposes  of  sub-regulation  (6),  investors  shall  be  deemed  to  have  given  their 
consent  to  variation  if  and  only  if  twenty  one  days  notice  is  given  to  them  of the  proposed 
variation and it is approved by a special resolution passed by them through postal ballot.  
(8) 
Sections 189 and 192A of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) and the rules framed 
thereunder shall mutatis mutandis apply to the special resolution referred to in sub-regulation 
(7).  

 

CHAPTER VII  

LISTING OF SECURITISED DEBT INSTRUMENTS  

 

Application for listing.  
35. (1) A special purpose distinct entity required by sub-section (2) of section 17A of the Act 
to  get  the securitised debt  instruments issued by it  listed on a recognised stock exchange or 
otherwise desirous of getting the securitised debt instruments issued by it so listed shall make 
an  application  to  the  stock  exchange  in  the  form  specified  by  it  along  with  the  following 
documents and particulars:  
(a) trust deed or other constitutional document, as the case may be;  
(b) copies  of  all  offer  documents  and  advertisements  in  connection  with  offer  of  securitised 

debt instruments by the special purpose distinct entity or its trustee at any time;  

(c) certified  copy  of  every  material  document  or  proposed  document  which  is referred  to  in 

any such offer document;  

(d) certified  copies  of  agreements  or memoranda  of understanding  relating  to  acquisition  or 
proposed acquisition of debt or receivables from a financial institution or other person; (e) 
certified copy of certificate of registration granted by the Board to the trustee under these 
regulations;  

(f)  specimen  of  any  other  securitised  debt  instrument  issued  by  the  special  purpose  distinct 

entity which are listed or proposed to be listed;  

(g) any other document or particular as may be required by the stock exchange.  
(2)  As  a  condition  for  listing,  the  securitised  debt  instruments  issued  by  a  special  purpose 
distinct entity shall have the following characteristics:  
(a) free transferability;  
(b) being in the nature of such undivided beneficial interest of the investors in the asset pool 
as  is  specified  in  the  scheme,  and  not  constituting  debt  of  the  special  purpose  distinct 
entity or originator;  

(c) maintenance of a record of the holders thereof, whether holding the same in physical form 

or dematerialized form.  

(3) 
The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  enter  into  a  listing  agreement  with  the 
recognised stock exchanges where the securitised debt instruments are proposed to be listed.  
(4) 
In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  sub-rule  (7)  of  rule  19  of  the  Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957, the Board hereby waives the strict enforcement of sub-
rules (1) to (3) of the said rule in relation to listing of securitised debt instruments issued in 
terms of these regulations, subject to compliance with these regulations.  
 

 

23[Listing Agreement. 
35A. (1) Every special purpose distinct entity desirous of listing securitised debt instruments 
on a recognised stock exchange, shall execute an agreement with such stock exchange. 
(2) Every special purpose distinct entity which has previously entered into agreements with a 
recognised  stock  exchange  to  list  securitised  debt  instruments  shall  execute  a  fresh  listing 
agreement  with  such  stock  exchange  within  six  months  of  the  date  of  notification  of 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing Obligations  and  Disclosure  Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015. 
 
24[. ]] 
 
Minimum public offering for listing  
36. (1) In respect of public offers of securitised debt instruments, the special purpose distinct 
entity  or  trustee  thereof  shall  satisfy  the  recognised  stock  exchange  to  which  a  listing 
application is made that each scheme of securitised debt instruments was offered to the public 
for subscription through advertisements in newspapers for a period of not less than two days 
and that applications received in pursuance of the offer were allotted in accordance with these 
regulations and the disclosures made in the offer document.  
(2) 
In  case  of  a  private  placement  of  securitised  debt  instruments,  the  special  purpose 
distinct  entity  shall  ensure  that  it  has  obtained  credit  rating  from  a  registered  credit  rating 
agency in respect of its securitised debt instruments.  
25[(3)  In  case  of  a  private  placement  of  securitised  debt  instruments,  the  special  purpose 
distinct entity shall file listing particulars with the recognised stock exchange, along with the 
application  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  35,  containing  such  information  as 
may be necessary for any investor in the secondary market to make an informed investment 
decision  in  respect  of its securitised debt  instruments and the special purpose distinct  entity 
shall promptly disseminate such information, as prescribed, in such manner as the recognised 
stock exchange(s) may determine from time to time.] 
(4) 
All  credit  ratings  obtained  pursuant  to  sub-regulation  (2),  including  unaccepted 
ratings,  if  any,  shall  be  disclosed  in  the  listing  particulars  filed  with  the  recognised  stock 
exchange under sub-regulation (3).  
 

 

23 Inserted by the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, w.e.f. 1-12-2015. 
24 Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Issue  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments  and  Security  Receipts)(Second 
Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 09-10-2018. Prior to this amendment, the regulation read as: 
“Security Deposit. 
35B.  (1)  The  issuer  shall  deposit,  before  the  opening  of  subscription  list,  and  keep  deposited  with  the  stock 
exchange(s) an amount calculated at the rate of one per cent of the amount of securities offered for subscription 
to the public. 
(2) The amount stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be deposited in the manner specified by Board and/or stock 
exchange(s). 
(3) The amount stipulated in sub-regulation (1) shall be refundable or forfeitable in the manner specified by the 
Board.” 
25 Substituted by the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015,  w.e.f. 1-12-
2015. Prior to its substitution, said sub-regulation read as under : 
"(3) In case of a private placement of securitised debt instruments, the special purpose distinct entity shall file 
listing particulars with the recognised stock exchange along with the application made under sub-regulation (1) 
of regulation 35, containing such information as may be necessary for any investor in the secondary market to 
make an informed investment decision in respect of its securitised debt instruments." 

26[Continous listing conditions. 
37.  The  special  purpose  distinct  entity  or  trustee  thereof  shall  submit  such  information, 
including financial information relating to the schemes, to the stock exchanges  and investors 
and  comply  with  such  other  continuing  obligations  as  may  be  stipulated  in  the  listing 
agreement.] 
 
Trading of securitised debt instruments  
38. 
The securitised debt instruments issued to the public or on a private placement basis, 
which  are  listed  in  recognised  stock  exchanges,  shall  be  traded  and  such  trades  shall  be 
cleared  and  settled  in  recognised  stock  exchanges  subject  to  conditions  specified  by  the 
Board.  
 

27[CHAPTER VII A 

ISSUANCE AND LISTING OF SECURITY RECEIPTS 

ELIGIBILITY 

 
38A.  An  issuer  proposing  to  issue  and  list  security  receipts  or  only  list  its  already  issued 
security receipts shall comply with the provisions of this chapter. 
 
38B. Security receipts proposed to be listed in terms of this chapter shall; 

i. 

ii. 
iii. 

be  issued  in  compliance  with  the  applicable  rules  and  guidelines,  as  framed  by  the 
Reserve Bank of India, from time to time; 
be issued on a private placement basis; 
comply with the provisions pertaining to issue of security receipts,; 

 
Sale of security receipts by the existing holders 
38C. (1) Any existing holder of security receipts, who proposes to sell, whole or part of, its 
holding  of  security  receipts  to  the  qualified  buyers  on  private  placement  basis,  where  such 
security  receipts  are  proposed  to  be  listed,  may  do  so,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
this Chapter. 
 
Provided  that  such  sale  by  any  holder  of  security  receipts  shall  be  permitted  only  if  the 
holding is not less than fifty percent of the outstanding security receipts. 

 

26 Substituted by the  SEBI  (Listing  Obligations and  Disclosure  Requirements)  Regulations,  2015,  w.e.f. 1-12-
2015. Prior to its substitution, said sub-regulation read as under : 
"37. Continuous listing conditions. — (1) The special purpose distinct entity or trustee thereof shall submit such 
information, including financial information relating to the schemes, to the stock exchanges and investors and 
comply with such other continuing obligations as may be stipulated in the listing agreement. 
 
(2) Every rating obtained by a special purpose distinct entity under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 25 or under 
sub-regulation  (2)  of  regulation  36  shall  be  periodically  (not  later  than  one  year)  reviewed  by  the  registered 
credit  rating agency  and any  revision in the  rating  shall be promptly  disclosed by the  special  purpose  distinct 
entity to the recognised stock exchanges where the securitised debt instruments are listed. 
 
(3) The information filed with a recognised stock exchange under sub-regulation (3) of regulation 36 and sub-
regulations (1) and (2) of this regulation shall be promptly disseminated to investors and prospective investors 
in such manner as the recognised stock exchange may be determined." 
27 Inserted by  the  SEBI (Public  Offer  and  Listing of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
 

 
(2)  A  sale  of  security  receipts  by  any  existing  holder  of  such  security  receipts  under  these 
regulations,  shall  be  subject  to  the  issuer  compulsorily  listing  the  security  receipts  before 
complying with the provisions of this chapter. 
 
Conditions for Listing of Security Receipts  
38D. (1) An issuer may list its security receipts on a recognized stock exchange subject to the 
following conditions: 
(a)  the security receipts have been issued on a private placement basis; 
(b)  the issuer has issued such security receipts in compliance with the applicable laws; 
(c)  the  offer  or  invitation  to  subscribe  to  security  receipts  shall  be  made  to  such  number  of 
persons not exceeding two hundred or such other number, in a financial year, as may be 
prescribed from time to time. 

(d)  the security receipts proposed to be listed are in dematerialized form;  
(e)  the disclosures as provided in regulation 38E have been made in the offer document; 
(f)  the minimum allotment made to the qualified buyers is Rs. 10 lakhs; 
(g)  such security receipts have been valued prior to listing; 
Provided that such valuation shall not be more than three months old from the date of listing 
and shall be done by an independent valuer; 
(h)  the security receipts have been rated by a credit rating agency registered with the Board.   
Provided that such rating shall not be more than three months old from the date of listing. 
 
(2) The issuer shall comply with the conditions of listing of such security receipts as specified 
in  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Listing  Obligations  and  Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
 
Offer Document 
38E.  (1)  An issuer seeking  listing of security receipts on a recognized stock exchange shall 
make such disclosures in the offer document as specified by the Reserve Bank of India from 
time to time, and as specified in Schedule VA of these regulations.  
 
Provided that the offer document shall not contain any false or misleading statement and shall 
disclose all material facts.  
 
(2)  The  offer  document  as  provided  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  made  available  for 
download on the web sites of stock exchanges where such securities are listed.  
 
38F. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (7) of rule 19 of the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Rules, 1957, the Board shall waive the strict enforcement of sub-rules (1) to (3) 
of the said rule in relation to listing of security receipts issued in terms of these regulations, 
subject to compliance with these regulations.  
 
 
Valuation, rating and NAV disclosure  
38G.  (1)  An  issuer  whose  security  receipts  are  listed  on  a  recognized  stock  exchange  shall 
ensure that: 

a)  the listed security receipts are valued at the end of each quarter  i.e. as on March 31, 

June 30, September 30 and December 31 of every year, 

b)  valuation is conducted by an independent valuer; and 
c)  the  net  asset  value  is  calculated  on  the  basis  of  such  independent  valuation  and  the 
same is declared by the asset reconstruction company within fifteen days of the end of 
the quarter. 

 
(2)  The  issuer  shall  also  comply  with  the  extant  Reserve  Bank  of  India  requirement  of 
obtaining  credit  rating  of  security  receipts  at  half  yearly  interval  and  declaration  of  the  net 
asset  value  thereafter  and/or  any  other  requirement  as  prescribed  by  the  Reserve  Bank  of 
India from time to time. 
 
Provided that in those two quarters in a year, where both external valuation and credit rating 
are required, issuer shall disclose lower of the two calculated NAVs.  
 
Trading of security receipts 
38H.  (1)  The  security  receipts  issued  on  a  private  placement  basis,  which  are  listed  on 
recognised  stock  exchanges,  shall  be  traded  and  such  trades  shall  be  cleared  and  settled  in 
recognised stock exchanges subject to conditions specified by the Board.  
 
(2) The trading lot of the security receipts shall not be less than Rs 10 lakh. 
 
(3) The trades of security receipts which have been made over the counter, shall be reported 
on a recognized stock exchange having a nation-wide trading terminal or such other platform 
as may be specified by the Board.  
 
(4)  The  Board  may  specify  conditions  for  reporting  of  trades  on  the  recognized  stock 
exchange or other platform referred to in sub-regulation (3).] 
 
 
 

INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS  

CHAPTER VIII  

 

Power to call for information  
39. 
The  Board  may  call  for  information  from  the  originator,  special  purpose  distinct 
entity,  trustee  (whether  registered  with  the  Board  or  not),  sponsor,  servicers,  underwriters, 
credit enhancers, liquidity providers or any other person associated with securitisation or any 
regulated activity.  
 
 
Right of inspection by the Board.  
40. 
(1)  Without  prejudice  to  provisions  of  sections  11  and  11C  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Board may appoint one or more persons 
to  undertake  the  inspection  of  the  books  of  account,  records  and  documents  of  the  special 
purpose distinct entity or any of its schemes or its trustee (whether registered with the Board 
or not) or servicer or any other agent for any of the purposes specified in sub-regulation (2).  
(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may be as follows, namely:-  
(a) 
done in a proper manner;  

to verify whether the books of account are being maintained and valuations are being 

During  the  course  of  inspection  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  other  persons 

(b) 
to  verify  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the rules and regulations made thereunder are being complied 
with; (c) to inquire into the complaints received from investors, other market participants or 
any  other  persons  on  any  matter  having  a  bearing  on  the  regulated  activities  of  the  special 
purpose distinct entity;  
(d) 
to inquire into affairs of the special purpose distinct entity suo-moto in the interest of 
investor  protection  or  the  integrity  of  the  market  in  so  far  as  it  relates  to  its  regulated 
activities;  
(e) 
to  inquire  whether  securitisation  or  regulated  activity  is  being  carried  on  as  per 
provisions of the Act  and these regulations;  (f) to inquire whether the Code of Conduct  has 
been observed.  
 
Notice before inspection.  
41.  (1)  Before  undertaking  an  inspection  under  regulation  40,  the  Board  shall  give  a 
reasonable notice to the special purpose distinct entity or other person.  
(2) 
Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  where  the  Board  is 
satisfied  that  in  the  interest  of  the  investors  no  such  notice  should  be  given,  it  may  by  an 
order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the special purpose distinct entity or 
other person be  taken up without such notice.  
(3) 
shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided under regulation 42.  
 
Obligations of special purpose distinct entities on inspection.  
42.  (1) It shall be the duty of every director, trustee, officer, employee, servicer or any other 
agent of the special purpose distinct entity who is being inspected to produce to the inspecting 
authority such books of accounts and other documents in  his custody or control and furnish 
him  with  such  statements  and  information  relating  to  regulated  activities  of  the  special 
purpose distinct entity as he may require within the specified time.  
(2) 
The  persons  mentioned  in  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  allow  the  inspecting  authority  to 
have a reasonable access to the premises occupied by such special purpose distinct entity or 
by  any  other  person,  on  its  behalf  and  also  extend  reasonable  facility  for  examining  any 
books,  records,  documents,  computer  systems  and  computer  data  in  the  possession  of  the 
special purpose distinct entity or any such other person and also provide copies of documents 
or other material which in the opinion of the inspecting authority are relevant for the purposes 
of the inspection.  
(3) 
The  inspecting  authority  shall  in  the  course  of  inspection,  be  entitled  to  examine  or 
record  statements  of  any  principal  officer,  director,  partner,  proprietor  and  employee  of  the 
special  purpose  distinct  entity  or  the  other  person  whose  records  or  other  documents  are 
being inspected.  
(4) 
It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, officer, employee, servicer or 
other agent  of the special purpose distinct  entity or the other person whose records or other 
documents are being inspected to give to the inspecting authority all assistance in connection 
with  the inspection which the special purpose distinct  entity  may reasonably  be expected to 
give.  
 
Appointment of auditor or valuer.  

43.  (1) The Board may appoint a qualified auditor to inspect the books of account or inquire 
into  the  affairs  of  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity,  servicer  or  other  agent  of  the  special 
purpose distinct entity in so far as it concerns its regulated activities:  
Provided that the auditor so appointed shall have the same powers of the inspecting authority 
as are mentioned in regulation 40 and the obligation of the special purpose distinct entity and 
its  employees  in  regulation  42  shall  be  applicable  to  the  investigation  under  this  regulation. 
Explanation: For the purposes of this sub-regulation, the expression "qualified auditor" shall 
have the meaning derived from section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).  
(2) 
The Board may appoint a valuer or direct  a valuer to  be appointed, if so required in 
the  interest  of  investors  in  a  scheme  for  the  purpose  of  proper  valuation  of  asset  pools 
acquired or held by a special purpose distinct entity.  
(3) 
(2) shall be borne by the originator, trustee, or other person if so specified by the Board.  
 
Submission of report to the Board.  
44. (1) The inspecting authority shall, as soon as may be possible, submit an inspection report 
to the Board.  
(2) On submission of the inspection report, the Board may take such action thereon as it may 
deem fit and appropriate.  

The expenses of such audit under sub-regulation (1) or valuation under sub-regulation 

 

CHAPTER IX  

PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT  

 

Cancellation or suspension of registration.  
45. (1) The registration granted under regulation 6 to a trustee who -  
(a) fails to comply with any conditions subject to which certificate has been granted;  
(b) contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act,  1992  (15  of  1992)  or  the  regulations  made  thereunder  –  may  be  cancelled  or 
suspended by the Board:  

Provided that no such registration shall be cancelled or suspended unless the trustee has been 
given an opportunity of being heard in the manner as applicable in respect of cancellation or 
suspension  of  registration  granted  to  any  intermediary  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Board of India Act, 1992.  
(2)  While passing an order of suspension or cancellation of  registration of a trustee, the 
Board  may  also  direct  winding  up  of  schemes  of  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  within 
such period and in such manner as may be directed.  
Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  this  sub-regulation,  “winding  up  of  schemes”  shall  mean 
liquidation  of  the  asset  pool  and  repayment  of  the  proceeds  thereof  to  the  investors  in  the 
scheme.  
(3) 
Notwithstanding  the  cancellation  of  certificate,  the  trustee  shall,  subject  to  such 
directions  as  the  Board  may  deem  appropriate,  ensure  compliance  of  the  Act,  these 
regulations, any circular issued thereunder and the listing agreement, until another registered 
trustee  is  appointed  in  his  place  or  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  winds  up  its  schemes 
and repays to the investors, whichever is earlier.  
(4) 
Nothing  contained  in  this  regulation  shall  be  deemed  to  prejudice  the  operation  of 
sections 12A, 21A, 23, 23A, 23C, 23E, 23H and 23M of the Act, sections 11, 11B, 11D and 
24 and Chapter VIA of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) 
and rule 19 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957.  

directing  the  recognised  stock  exchange  concerned  not  to  permit  trading  in  the 

 
 
Directions   
46.  Without prejudice to  actions under the Act, the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
Act,  1992  (15  of  1992)  and  regulation  45,  the  Board  may  in  the  interest  of  the  securities 
market, in the interest of the investors or for the purpose of securing the proper management 
of  any  special  purpose  distinct  entity  or  trustee  (whether  registered  with  the  Board  or  not), 
pass, any or all of the following directions:  
(a) 
directing the originator or any other persons associated with securitisation or regulated 
activity  to  refund  any  money  collected  under  an  issue  to  the  investors  with  or  without 
requisite interest, as the case may be;  
(b) 
directing the persons associated with securitisation or regulated activity concerned not 
to  access the capital  market  or not  to  deal  in  securities or securitised debt  instruments for a 
particular period or not to engage in securitisation or regulated activities;  
(c) 
securitised debt instruments;  
(d) 
debt instruments;  
(e) 
the case:  
Provided  that  before  issuing  any  directions  the  Board  may  give  a  reasonable  opportunity  of 
being heard to the person concerned:  
Provided  further  that  if  any  interim  direction  is  required  to  be  passed,  the  Board  may  give 
post decisional hearing to such person.  
 
Appeal   
47. 
A person aggrieved by an order of  the Board or Adjudicating Officer under the Act, 
the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act, 1992  (15  of  1992)  or  these  regulations  or 
refusal  of  listing  by  a  recognised  stock  exchange  may  prefer  an  appeal  to  the  Securities 
Appellate  Tribunal  in  accordance  with  section  23L  of  the  Act  read  with  the  Securities 
Contracts (Regulation) (Appeal to Securities Appellate Tribunal) Rules, 2000, or section 15T 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) read with the Securities 
Appellate Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 2000.  

directing  the  recognised  stock  exchange  concerned  to  suspend  trading  in  securitised 

any other direction which the Board may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of 

 

28[CHAPTER IX-A 

POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 

 

Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
47A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or 
any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding 
twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new 
products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox 
in the securities markets. 
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the 
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to 
be complied with on a continuous basis. 

28 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 

 

Explanation.  —  For  the  purposes  of  these  regulations,  "regulatory  sandbox"  means  a  live 
testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  may  be 
deployed on a limited set  of eligible customers for a specified period of time,  for furthering 
innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the 
Board.] 

 

CHAPTER X 

MISCELLANEOUS  

 

In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of  these 

Power of the Board to issue clarifications.  
48. 
regulations, the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars.  
 
Delegation of powers  
49. The powers exercisable by the Board under these regulations shall also be exercisable by 
any  officer  of  the  Board  to  whom  such  powers  are  delegated  by  the  Board  by  means  of  an 
order made under section 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 
1992).  
 
Applicability of other Laws  
50.  The provisions of these regulations are without prejudice to  the duties of the trustees or 
special  purpose  distinct  entity  or  other  parties  to  the  securitisation  under  the  Indian  Trusts 
Act, 1882 (2 of 1882) or any other law for the time being in force.  
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

29[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 

SCHEDULE I  

Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008]  

[See regulations 4(3) and 6(2)]  

FORMS  
FORM A  

APPLICATION FORM FOR SEEKING REGISTRATION  

Name of applicant.......................………………………..……………………………..  
Contact person. ................................…………………..……………………………..  
Name of the Compliance officer...............................................................………….  

29  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 

 

It  is  important  that  this  application  form  should  be  filled  in  accordance  with  the 

The application must be signed by the competent person having authority to do so and 

Applicants  must  submit  a  completed  application  form  together  with  appropriate 

Telephone No. : ...................................................Fax No. ..................................... e-mail. 
Website: ………………………………..  
Instruction for filling up form:—  
1. 
supporting documents to the Board.  
2. 
regulations.  
3. 
sheets which should be attached to the application form.  
4. 
all signatures must be in original.  
DETAILS OF SPONSOR  
1. Name of the sponsor-  
2. Address  of 

registered  office/correspondence 

Information  which  needs  to  be  supplied  in  more  details  may  be  given  on  separate 

the 

address- 

Telephone Nos. Telex Nos. Fax Nos. E-mail address  

Website address  
3. Name of the contact person-  
4. Date and place of incorporation of the sponsor (Enclose a copy of 

certificate of incorporation) 5. Objects of the sponsor.  

(Enclose copy of the Memorandum and Articles of Association)  
Main objects- Ancillary 
objects-  
6. Capital structure and shareholding pattern.  
7. Present line of business activities-  
Number of years in that line  
8. Condensed financial information.  
(Enclose balance sheets and profit and loss account for five years) 9. 
Accounting policies.  
(Furnish description of significant accounting policies)  
10. Systems and procedures  
(Furnish description of systems and procedures in the company and essential internal controls 
in order to carry on the business of the company)  
11. Names of the associate organisations/group companies/subsidiaries, etc.  
12. Management of the sponsor Board of the company with names, experience, qualification, 

and profession of the Directors.  

Names of key personnel-  
Organisational structure-  
Board of Directors of associate organisations, companies and subsidiaries.  
13. Names and addresses of the bankers of the sponsor.  
14. Names and addresses of the auditors of the sponsor.  
15. Court  cases/litigations  in  which  the  sponsor  may  have  been  involved  in  the  last  three 

years.  

CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION  
(A) Income statement  
Years (Rs.) 1 
2 3 4 5 
Income:  

Dividend  
Trading  
Management Fee  
Other income   
Total ___________________ Expenses:  
Director’s remuneration  
Trusteeship fees  
Custodian fees  
Registrar’s fees  
Other expenses  
Total _____________________  
Gross Profit  
Depreciation  
Net profit before tax  
Tax  
Profit after tax  
Dividends Retained 
earnings  
(B) Assets and liabilities  
Years (Rs.) 1 
2 3 4 5 
Assets:  
Fixed Assets Gross  
Depreciation  
Net value  
Current assets ______________________  
Investments*  
Others (please specify) Cash 
and bank balances Less:  
Current liabilities and  
Provisions  
Net worth _______________________ Represented 
by:  
Issued and paid up capital  
Free reserves  
(excluding revaluation reserves)  
Total _______________________ *Provide 
full particulars of investments.  
……………………………………………………………………………………… FORM B  

Format of letter of registration  

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 17A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) 
Act, 1956 read with regulation 6 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Public Offer 
and Listing of Securitised Debt  Instruments) Regulations, 2008 made thereunder, the Board 
hereby  grants  registration  to....................  as  a  trustee  entitled  to  act  as  a  trustee  to  a  special 
purpose  distinct  entity  offering  securitised  debt  instruments  to  the  public  and  /  or  seeking 
listing for such instruments on a recognised stock exchange.  
Date....................  

By order  

Sd/-  
For and on behalf of the  
Securities and Exchange Board of India  

30[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 

SCHEDULE II  

Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008]  

[See regulations 4(3), 6(1), 7(b) and 22(2)]  

FEES  

1.  The  fees  payable  under  these  regulations  by  an  applicant  or  trustee  or  special  purpose 
distinct entity shall be as follows:  
A. Application fees Rs. 25,000/- (twenty five thousand rupees)  
B. Registration fees 31[Rs.1,00,000/- (one lakh rupees)]  
C. Annual fees 32[Rs.25,000/- (twenty five thousand rupees)]  
D. Filing  fees  for  offer  documents  0.03  per  cent  of  the  amount  raised  in  the  public  offer, 

subject to a minimum of 33[one lakh rupees and a maximum of five lakh rupees].  

2.  The  fees  mentioned  in  paragraph  1  shall  be  paid 34[by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank 
account  through  NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or  any  other  mode  allowed  by  RBI  or]  by  means  of  a 
demand  draft  drawn  in  favour  of  the  ‘Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India’  payable  at 
Mumbai.  
 

35[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 

Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008] 

SCHEDULE - III 

[See regulation 7(g)]  

CODE OF CONDUCT  

1. 
Schemes of a special purpose distinct entity shall not be organised, operated, managed 
in  the  interest  of  the  originator  or  sponsor  or  a  special  class  of  investors.  Interests  of  all 
classes of investors of the scheme shall be taken into account in such organisation, operation 
and management.  
2. 
A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  its  trustee  shall  ensure  the  dissemination  to  all 
investors  of  adequate,  accurate,  explicit  and  timely  information  fairly  presented  in  a  simple 
language about the asset pools, transactions & arrangements with originator, credit enhancer, 
underwriter, liquidity provider, securitised debt instruments, financial position, credit ratings 
and general affairs of the scheme or any other party to the securitisation or regulated activity.  
3. 
A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  its  trustee  shall  avoid  conflicts  of  interest  in 
managing the affairs of the schemes and other regulated activities and shall keep the interest 
of all investors paramount in all matters.  
4. 
of bank accounts, asset pools and securitised debt instruments holders’ accounts or folios.  

A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall ensure scheme-wise segregation 

 

30  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
31 Inserted by the SEBI (Payment of Fees)(Amendment) Regulations, 2014 w.e.f May 23, 2014. 
32 Ibid. 
33 Ibid. 
34 Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees  and  Mode  of  Payment)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2017,  w.e.f.         
6-3-2017.  
35  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 

A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  its  trustee  shall  maintain  high  standards  of 

5. 
A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  its  trustee  shall  carry  out  the  business  in 
accordance  with  objectives  stated  in  the  offer  documents  and  take  decision  solely  in  the 
interest of investors.  
6. 
A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and its  trustee  shall  not  use  any  unfair  or  unethical 
means, directly or indirectly, to sell or market the securitised debt instruments or induce any 
investor to buy such instruments.  
7. 
A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  its  trustee  shall  not  employ  any  unfair  or 
unethical  means in valuation and conversion of asset  pools or in the course of securitisation 
or any other regulated activity.  
8. 
integrity and fairness in all their dealings and in the conduct of their business.  
9. 
A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall render at all times high standards 
of service, exercise due diligence and independent professional judgment and take reasonable 
care and skill in performing its functions.  
10. 
A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  its  trustee  shall  not  make  any  exaggerated 
statement,  whether  oral  or  written,  either  about  their  qualifications  or  capability  to  render 
services or their achievements or in respect of asset pools.  
11. 
A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall always ensure that the debt and 
receivables  acquired  by  it  are  through  a  genuine  transaction  amounting  to  a  true  sale  and 
legally realizable by it.  
36[12. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall fulfill its obligations in a prompt, 
ethical and professional manner.  
13. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall not divulge to anybody either orally 
or in writing, directly or indirectly, any confidential information about its investors which 
has come to its knowledge, without taking prior permission of its investors, except where 
such disclosures are required to be made in compliance with any law for the time being in 
force.  

14. A  special  purpose  distinct  entity  and  its  trustee  or  any  of  its  directors,  partners  or 
managers,  shall  not  either  through  its  account  or through  associates  or family  members, 
relatives or friends indulge in any insider trading.  

15. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall have internal control procedures and 
financial  and  operational  capabilities  which  can  be  reasonably  expected  to  protect  its 
operations, its investors and other registered entities from financial loss arising from theft, 
fraud, and other dishonest acts, professional misconduct or omissions.  

16. A special purpose distinct  entity  and its trustee shall ensure that good corporate policies 
and  corporate  governance  is  in  place  and  shall  develop  internal  code  of  conduct  for 
governing its internal operations and laying down standards of appropriate conduct for its 
employees for carrying out their duties.  

17. A special purpose distinct entity and its trustee shall not be party to—  
i.  creation of false market;  
ii. price rigging or manipulation.]  
 

37[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised 

Debt Instruments and Security Receipts)] Regulations, 2008]  

SCHEDULE IV  

 

36Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2015 w.e.f. April 9, 2015. 

(See regulation 9)  

Contents of Instrument of Trust  
The Trust Deed or other constitutional document shall contain the following, namely:—  
1.  That  the  trustees  shall  take  into  their  custody,  or  under  their  control  the  debts  or 
receivables of the schemes of the special purpose distinct entity and hold it in trust for the 
benefit of investors.  

2.  That  the investors in the securitised debt instruments have such beneficial interest in the 

underlying debt or receivables as may have been conferred by the scheme.  

3.  That the trustees themselves do not have any beneficial interest in the underlying debts or 

receivables.  

4.  The duties and obligations of the trustees shall be clearly specified.  
5.  The  particulars  of  interest  or  association  of  the  trustees  which  they  may  have  with  the 
originator or the sponsor. The trustees shall also furnish to the board of trustees or trustee 
company  particulars  of  interest  or  association  which  they  may  have  in  originator  or 
sponsor.  

6.  The originator or any of its associates does not exercise control over the trustee.  
7.  The  trustees  shall  act  in  the  interest  of  the  investors  and  they  shall  provide  or  cause  to 
provide  information  and  disclosures  to  investors  and  Board  as  may  be  specified  by  the 
Board.  

8.  The trustees shall take reasonable and due care to ensure that the funds raised under the 
schemes  launched  by  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  are  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions of the Act and these regulations.  

9.  The details of the Trust Property.  
10. The trustee shall issue certificate or instrument (by whatever name called) evidencing the 
beneficial  interest  of  the  investors  in  the  debt  or  receivables  assigned  to  the  special 
purpose distinct entity.  

11. Declaration  that  the  trustees  and  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity  shall  not  make  or 
guarantee loans or take up any activity which is not a regulated activity in terms of these 
regulations.  

12. Broad policies regarding allocation of payments  
13. The  trustee  shall  furnish  annual  report  about  the  pool  performance  and  the  investor 

servicing to the investors.  

14. Trusteeship fee, if any, payable to trustees  
15. No amendment to the Trust Deed which prejudicially affects the interest of investors shall 

be carried out.  

16. The removal of the trustee in all cases would require the prior approval of the Board.  
17. The Trust Deed shall lay down the procedure for seeking approval of the investors under 

such circumstances as are specified in the Regulations.  

 

SCHEDULE V  

38[Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 

Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008] 

(See regulation 26)  

DISCLOSURES TO BE MADE IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT  

 
37  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 
38  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Public  Offer  and  Listing  of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 

The offer letter shall contain all material information which shall be true and adequate so as 
to enable the investors to make informed decision on the investments in the issue.  

1.0 Cover Page Requirement  
1.1 The front and back inside and outside of the cover pages of the offer document 

shall be white and no patterns or pictures shall be printed on these pages.  

1.2. The front outside cover page of the offer document shall contain the following details:  
a) The name of the issuer, the address of the issuer including its registered office, if any ;  
b) Name  of  the  trustee,  address  of  registered  office,  along  with  its  telephone  number,  fax 

number, contact person, website address and e-mail address;  

c) The  name  of  the  Originator,  the  address  of  its  registered  office  along  with  its  telephone 

number, fax number, contact person, website address and e mail address;  

d) The title of the securitised debt instruments , expected maturity, coupons, their ratings;  
e) The number, nature, price ,  amount and issue size of securitised debt  instruments offered 

through the offer document;  

Name/s  of  the  stock  exchanges  where  listing  of  the  securitised  debt  instruments  is 

f)  Asset type being securitised along with the nature of transaction ;  
g) Issue Schedule:  
(a) Date of opening of the issue  
(b) Date of the closing of the issue  
h) 
proposed;  
i) 
The  following  disclaimer  shall  be  made  prominently  in  the  first  page  of  the  offer 
document:  “The submission  of draft  offer document  to  the Board should  not  in  any way be 
deemed  or  construed  that  the  same  has  been  approved  by  SEBI.  SEBI  does  not  take 
responsibility for the financial soundness of the scheme launched by the issuer.  
Neither SEBI nor the stock exchanges are responsible for the correctness of any statements, 
opinions  or  other  disclosures  contained  in  this  offer  document.  The  registration  granted  by 
SEBI  to  the  trustee  should  not  be  taken  as  an  indication  of  the  merits  of  the  issuer,  the 
originator or the securitised debt instruments.”  
2.0 Table of Contents, definitions and abbreviations.  
2.1 Table of Contents shall appear immediately after the front inside cover page  2.2 
The definitions and abbreviations, if any, shall appear after the Table of Contents.  
3.0 Objects of the Offer.  
A brief description about the objects of the offer and proposed end use of funds shall be given 
in the offer document.  
4.0 Summary information  
4.1 The following information may be provided in succinct form to enable the investor to get 
a quick idea of the transaction, followed by elaborate details in the offer document:  
(a)  Description of the securitised debt instruments;  
(b) Brief  description  of  the  asset  pool,  including  transaction  type  –  cash,  synthetic,  balance 

sheet/ repackaging, etc.  

(c)  Names  of  principal  parties  to  the  transaction  –  originator,  issuer,  trustee,  credit 
enhancement  provider,  liquidity  facility  provider,  any  swap  counterparty,  servicer, 
depository, principal underwriter, collection and payment account bank, etc.  

(d) Nominal amount of each class/ tranche of the securitised debt instruments and the issue  
and redemption prices and nominal interest rate, interest type – fixed or floating;  
(e)  Any class tranche not being offered to the public through offer document   
(f)  Ratings of each class/tranche  
(g) Credit enhancements for each class of securitised debt instruments  

(h) Expected interest and principal payment dates;  
(i)  Expected maturity date of each class of securitised debt instruments  
(j)  Legal final maturity of the scheme;  
(k) Optional redemptions, if any;  
(l)  Description of underlying asset pool;  
(m) If  there  is  a  possibility  of  extension  or  shortening  of  such  period,  then  it    shall  be 

disclosed;  

(n) Declaration  about  the  possibility  of  premature  winding  up  of  the  scheme  in  case  of 

prepayments;  

(o) Liquidity support, if any  
(p) Terms of payment and cash flow, distinguishing, where appropriate, allocation of revenue 

receipts and principal receipts;  

4.2 One standard financial unit shall be used in the offer document.  
39 [4.3  Summary  term  sheet  including  at  least  following  information  (wherever  relevant) 

pertaining to the securitised debt instrument:-  

 

Originators  

________,  __________  (each  referred  to  as  an  “Originator”  and 
collectively referred to as the “Originators”)  

Trustee  

[name of trustee]  

Issuer  

[name of special purpose distinct entity(SPDE)]  

Trust Property  

 

Initial  Contribution  to  the 
SPDE  

INR [ ]  

Transaction Size   

INR [ ]  

Pool  

Principal  

on  

INR [ ]  

Settlement  Date  

39 Inserted by the SEBI (Public Offer and Listing of Securitised Debt Instruments) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2015 w.e.f. April 9, 2015. 

 

Pool Cut Off  Date  

[date]  

[Specify  future  cut  offs  (if  revolving  in  nature)  or  purchase  of  future 
receivables]  

Settlement  Date  

[date]  

Payout  Dates  

[date]  

Transaction  Structure  

Each  Originator  proposes  to sell  the  following  assets to  the  Issuer  on 

the Settlement Date:  

[nature of assets]  

[description of assets]  

[amount]  

The aggregate of the assets shall be referred to as the “Total Pool”. 

 

 

 [specify if par / premium / discount deal]  

The  Issuer  intends 

to  issue  [  ]  securitised  debt  instruments 

representing  an  undivided  beneficial  interest  in  the  Issuer's  property 

including the Pool.   

[specify if there are future sales]  

Receivables  

[detailed description of the receivables]  

[Aggregate of all the receivables]  

LTV-based, tenure-based, ticket size based distribution etc  

Disclosure on key pool 
features composition  

and  

Collection Period  

 

________________  

Servicer  

 

_______,  _________    (individually  referred  to  as  a  “Servicer”  and 

collectively referred to as the “Servicers”)  

•  Obligations  

of  

the  

Servicer(s)  

(including 

 

reporting obligations)  

•  Events of default of the Servicer(s)  

•  Right to change the Servicer(s)  

and   [ ]  

_______________  

[specify whom the Counsel represents]  

  Servicer  

Fee  

Incentives  

Legal Counsel  

  Credit  

Enhancement  

for the Transaction  

• 

Internal credit enhancement available for each class of securitised 

debt  instruments,  expressed  in  absolute  amounts  and  as  a 

proportion of the Pool Principal  

•  External  credit  enhancement  available  for  each  class  of 
securitised  debt  instruments,  expressed  in  absolute  amounts  and 
as a proportion of the Pool Principal  

 

 

•  Annexure that indicates how the above credit enhancement has 

been calculated, along with assumptions  

•  Provider of credit enhancement   

[ ]  

Utilisation  process  and 

conditions  for  utilization 

of Credit  

Enhancement  

 

Name of Designated bank 

(with 

which 

Cash 

Collateral 

and 

/ 

or 

Collection and payment  

Account is maintained)   

Swap  

Nature of the swap  

Swap counterparty, rating of the swap counterparty  

Refund / top up of  

Credit Enhancement  

[ ]  

Clean-Up Call Option  

[ ]  

Details of Listing  

-  Timing for listing  

-  Conditions for remaining listed  

-  Consequence of de-listing  

Rating Agency(ies)  

[ ]  

Series   of 
 
instruments  

securitised debt 

[specify seniority and subordination]  

Day count convention  

[ ]  

 

 Series  

A1  

 Series  

A2  

 Series  

A3  

 Securitised  

Debt  

 Securitised   Debt  

 Securitised   Debt  

Instruments 

Instruments 

Instruments 

 

Seniority  

Face Value  

Initial rating  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Final Maturity Date  

Expected Maturity  

Date  

Expected Yield  

Payment Schedule  

payment  

 

 

 

 

 

Expected 
schedule   

Promised 
schedule  

payment  

 

First Payout Date  

Portfolio Audit  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Eligibility  Criteria  for  the 
Receivables  

Regulatory requirements  

Investor requirements (concentration etc.)  

  Minimum  

Holding  

Period, if any   

Minimum  Holding  Period,  if  any,  during  which  the  receivables  are 
held by the Originator  

  Minimum  

Retention  

Requirement, if any  

Continuing stake, if any, of Originator, if any, on the receivables  

Details of Transaction  

Documents  

Applicable Law and  

Jurisdiction  

 

 

Waterfall Mechanism  

]  

5.0 Risks involved  

Rules  for  cash  flow  to  each  investor  and  swap  counterparty,  and 
treatment of excess interest / residual cash flows and treatment , in case 
of prepayment of underlying loans or change in interest rate on loan   

a) Description of the Assets and Debtors.  
b) Default Risk / Credit Risk related to the assets.  
c) Delinquency Risk.  
d) Dilution Risk, that is to say, any possible changes in the credit quality of the pool, excess 

spread or other factors over time. e) Correlation Risk.  

f) Servicing risk, including risks and costs involved in any transition of the servicer g) 
Prepayment Risk..  
h) Liquidity Risk.  
i)  Currency, Interest and Other Risks.  
j)  Potential loss on securities due to limited assets of special purpose distinct entity.  
k) Risks arising out of geographic concentration of receivables, if any.  
l)  Any other risk specific to the transaction and asset class.  

5.1. 
The issuer’s perception about such risk factors shall be disclosed together with 
detailed descriptions of the measures if any that have been taken or that are proposed 
to be taken by the issuer to mitigate such risks.  
5.2. 
In  addition  to  the  risk  factors  specific  to  investment  in  securitised  debt 
instruments  as  above,  disclosure  shall  also  be  made  of  the  normal  risks  associated 
with  investing  in  securities  as  mentioned  in  the  Guidelines  or  Regulations  of  the 
Board relating to issue of capital, to the extent applicable.  

that  the  securitised  debt  instruments  do  not  represent  deposits,  liabilities  of  the 

6.0 Disclaimers  
The following disclaimers shall also be made in bold font in the offer document:  
(a) 
originator, servicer or special purpose distinct entity and that they are not insured;  
(b) 
capital value of the securitised debt instruments or the collectibility of the asset pool.  

that  the  special  purpose  distinct  entity,  originator  or  servicer  does  not  guarantee  the 

7.0 Details about public offer  
7.1 The following details about the public offer shall be disclosed in the offer 

document a) Minimum application.  

b) Minimum subscription – disclosure of method of calculation and disclosure of the sources 
of funds if the whole or any part of the expenditure mentioned in regulation 31 are to  be 
met otherwise than out of issue proceeds.  

c) Interest rate on application money.  
d) Period of offer - opening and closing dates.  
e) Manner  of  making  application  for  certificates  and  instruments  and  the  addresses  of  the 

places where the applications would be accepted.  

f)  Manner of declaration of results of the public offer.  
g) Methods  and  time  limits  for  delivery  of  securitised  debt  instruments  to  successful 

applicants and of refunds of application moneys to unsuccessful applicants.  

h) Option  of  the  applicants  to  choose  between  allotment  in  the  physical  and  dematerialised 

form.  

i)  Brief description of the basis of allotment and procedure which will be followed in case of 

over-subscription.  

j)  Amount  of  minimum  subscription  and  the  steps  that  would  be  taken  if  minimum 

subscription is not received.  

k) Listing details and transferability.  

8.0 The disclosures regarding Securitised debt instruments  
8.1 The following disclosures shall be made regarding the securitised debt instruments 

offered:  

(a) An indication as to, where potential material liquidity shortfalls may occur, the availability 
and  details  of  any  liquidity  support  and  plans  to  cover  potential  shortfalls.  (b)  Information 
regarding possible accumulation of surpluses in the issuer and an indication of the investment 
criteria for the investment of any liquidity surpluses.  
(c)  Details  of  any  other  arrangements  upon  which  payments  of  interest  and  principal  to 
investors are dependent.  
8.2 The tax treatment of the various transactions at the hands of the investor, special purpose 
distinct entity and originator shall be disclosed.  
9.0 Disclosures about the Issuer  
a) A brief description of the issuer along with its history ;  
b) A statement whether the issuer has been established as a special purpose vehicle or entity.  
c) Details  of  the  settlor,  initial  corpus,  place  of  registration,  if  any,  along  with  any 

identification number.  

d) To the extent known to the issuer, state the name of the person(s) who directly or indirectly 
controls  the  issuer,  along  with  the  nature  of  such  control  and  the  measures  in  place  to 
ensure that such control is not abused.  

e) The person(s) holding residual beneficial interest in the trust.  
f)  Financial Information concerning the Issuer’s assets and liabilities, financial position, and 

profits and losses, if any.  

g) Names,  address,  nationality,  professional  experience,  other  directorships  and  academic 

qualifications of the trustees.  

h) Management of the issuer.  
10.0 Disclosures about the Trustees  
1. Name of the trustee, organizational form, management.  
2. Experience.  
3. Duties & responsibilities of the trustee under the trust deed.  
4. Principal powers of the trustees.  
5. Procedure for appointment, removal and replacement of trustees 6. Other material terms of 

the trust deed.  

11.0 Disclosures about the Originator  
1. Name,  description,  principal  business  activities  and  brief  history  of  operation  of  the 

originator.  

2. Principal business segments in which the originator operates.  
3. Description of the originator’s business, market presence, market share, if any, experience 

etc. in relation to the asset class proposed to be securitized.  

4. Financial  Information  concerning  the  originator’s  assets  and  liabilities,  financial  position, 
and  profits  and  losses,  for  the  purpose  of  which  the  originator  shall  provide  a  complete 
audited  financial  statements  for  past  3  years  and,  if  necessary,  unaudited  financial 

statements prepared within 120 days from the date of the application for registration of the 
asset backed securities is made effective.  

5. Overview of the process of origination of the asset being securitised. 6. Major underwriting 

practices concerning the asset being securitised.  

12.0 Disclosures about the Servicer  
1. Name of the Servicer, organizational form and its principal activities.  
2. Experience.  
3. Financial  Information:  The  servicer  should  possess  the  financial  resources  necessary  to 

perform under the servicing agreement and/or trust agreement.  

4. Disclosure about defaults if any.  
5. Material  terms  of  the  servicing  agreement  and  the  servicer’s  duties,  with  the  servicing 

agreement filed as an exhibit.  

6. Servicing fees.  
7. Events of default of the servicer and consequences thereof. 8. Replacement of the servicer, 

particulars about whether any backup servicer exists.  

13.0 Disclosures about the Transaction Structure & Cash Flow  
1.  Description  of  the  structure  of  the  transaction,  including,  if  necessary,  a  structure 

diagram.  

2.  Description of the entities participating in the issue and description of the functions, risks 

associated to be performed by them.  

3.  Excess spread and the treatment thereof.  
4.  Credit enhancement and liquidity support.  
5.  Credit  collateral,  over-collateralisation,  guarantees  or  any  other  support  from  the 
originator or any third party, particulars of such credit enhancer, fees, if any, payable to 
such  enhancer  and  particulars  of  any  provision  requiring  the  replacement  of  such 
enhancer in any contingency.  

6.  Important structural triggers in the transaction such early amortisation, redirection of the 

cash flows to a particular class(es) of the securities, trapping of the excess spread, etc.  

7.  Cash reserve, if any, including the reinvestment of the same and eligible securities/modes 

of investment where the same may be invested.  

8.  Reinvestment of cash flows, if any, and the modes where the same may be reinvested.  
9.  Any  material  contracts  with  the  originator  or  third  parties  such  as  swaps,  put  or  call 

options including any such options in respect of the securitised debt instruments.  

10. Clean up call option, if any.  
11. Priority  of  distributions  and  allocation  of  funds.  An  illustrative  schedule  of  priority  is 

given below:  

• Servicing Fee, Trustee Fee etc.  
• Class A Securities Interest  
• First allocation of principal  
• Class B interest  
• Second allocation of principal  
• Reinstatement of reserve account, if any • Early amortisation events, trigger clauses etc.  
• Events of default and events entailing change in priority of distributions  
12. 
Description of the method and date of the sale, transfer or assignment of the assets or 
of  any  rights  and/or  obligations  in  the  assets  to  the  issuer  or,  where  applicable,  the  manner 
and time period in which the proceeds from the issue will be fully invested by the issuer.  
13.  Material  features  of  the  asset  pool  such  as  default  rate,  loss  rate,  recovery  rate, 
delinquency rate (by buckets such as 30 dpd; 60 dpd; 90 dpd, etc), prepayment rate, etc.  

Sensitivity  of  the  cash  flows  and  yields  on  different  classes  to  the  changes  in  the 

14. 
above assumptions, including expected maturity.  
15.  Major representations and warranties contained in the document whereby the debt or 
receivables have been assigned. 16. Any other particulars as are necessary to understand the 
transaction structure.  
14.0 The Underlying Assets  
In  any  such  information  as  below,  where  an  average  information  is  being  given,  the 
minimum, maximum and the standard deviation must also be disclosed:  
(a) the legal jurisdiction(s) where the assets are located;  
(b) the nature of and title of the assets;  
(c) the expiry or maturity date(s) of the assets;  
(d) the rate of return from the assets;  
(e) the criteria for the selection of the assets;  
(f)  the number and value of the assets in the pool;  
(g) the method of origination or creation of the assets;  
(h) rights  of  recourse  against  the  originator  to  the  extent  allowed  in  law,  including  a  list  of 

material representations and warranties given to the issuer relating to the assets;  

(i)  rights to substitute the assets and the qualifying criteria;  
(j)  any prepayment right including prepayment penalties available to the obligors;  
(k) level  of concentration of the obligors in  the asset  pool, identifying  obligors that account 

for ten per cent or more of the asset value;  

(l)  where there is no concentration of obligors above ten per cent, the general characteristics 

and descriptions of the obligors;  

(m) 

the  outstanding  principal  balance/anticipated  collections  over  a  definite  period  from 

the eligible assets;  

(n) the  outstanding  principal  balance/anticipated  collections  over  a  definite  period  from  the 
eligible assets as a percentage of the total amount of asset-backed securities being offered; 
(o) the cash generated by the eligible assets in the last financial year as a percentage of the 
total amount of securitised debt instruments being offered;  

(p)  the amount of eligible assets in default;  
(q)  the amount of eligible assets in default as a percentage of the total amount of securitised 
debt instruments being offered and the amount of eligible assets in default as a percentage 
of the credit enhancement;  

(r)  explanatory notes where there is expected material difference between actual and  
projected cash flows and any actions being taken to correct the situation;  
(s)  a description of what constitutes a default;  
(t)  a  chartered  accountant’s  report  on  the  cash  flow  projections  arising  from  the  eligible 

assets which are the basis of the securitisation together with the basis of the projection.  

15.0 Static Pool Information  
The following information shall be provided for static pools of similar assets of all past 
securitisation transactions done with reference to the same originator:  
1. 
Information regarding delinquencies, cumulative losses and prepayments information 
for the past 5 years of the originator’s portfolio, including the build up of such delinquencies, 
losses and prepayments over time.  
2. 
It should include the factors relevant to the transaction such as asset term, asset type, 
yield, payment rates, the erosion of credit enhancements, any allocation of losses to any class 
of investors, etc.  
16.0 Outstanding litigations and material developments.  

The offer document shall contain the following declaration by trustees of the special 

The  offer  document  shall  also  contain  a  declaration  made  by  the  directors  of  the 

17.0 Other regulatory and Statutory Disclosures.  
18.0  Fees  &  expenses  Any fees paid  to  trustee, servicer etc. and the tax 
paid should be disclosed.  
19.0 Declarations.  
(1) 
purpose distinct entity at the end:-  
“We  ……………………………………………………..  being  the  trustees  of  the  issuer 
namely: ………………………………. accept responsibility for the information contained in 
this  offer  document.  To  the  best  of  our  knowledge  and  belief  and  we  have  taken  all 
reasonable  care  to  ensure  that  the  information  contained  in  this  document  is  in  accordance 
with  facts which are true , fair and adequate and does not  omit  anything likely  to affect  the 
import of such information.  
In  our  opinion,  the  issuer  does  not  have  any  debts,  liabilities  or  other  claims  which  may 
increase the likelihood of the issuer being subjected to  dissolution, voluntary or compulsory 
winding up or insolvency proceedings.  
In our opinion, the expected cash flow from the asset pool is sufficient to meet the obligations 
on the securitised debt instruments.”  
(2) 
originator in the following terms:-  
“We  ……………………………………………………..  being  the  directors  of  the  originator 
namely: ………………………………. accept responsibility for the  information contained in 
this  offer  document.  To  the  best  of  our  knowledge  and  belief  and  we  have  taken  all 
reasonable  care  to  ensure  that  the  information  contained  in  this  document  is  in  accordance 
with  facts  which  are  true, fair  and  adequate  and does  not  omit  anything  likely  to  affect  the 
import of such information.  
In our opinion, the originator is a going concern.  
In our opinion, the expected cash flow from the asset pool is sufficient to meet the obligations 
on the securitised debt instruments.” 20.0 Undertakings.  
(1) The  following  undertakings  shall  be  made  by  all  trustees  of  the  special  purpose  distinct 
entity, -  
(a) 
that  in  the  event  minimum  subscription  is  not  received,  the  special  purpose  distinct 
entity shall forthwith refund the application moneys collected under the offer and in the event 
of  delay  beyond  eight  days  from  closure  of  the  offer  in  making  such  refund,  the  special 
purpose  distinct  entity  and  its  directors  or  trustees  shall  be  liable  jointly  and  severally  to 
repay the application moneys together with interest at fifteen per cent per annum;  
(b) 
that in the event of over-subscription, the excess application moneys shall be refunded 
forthwith to unsuccessful and partially successful applicants and in the event of delay beyond 
eight  days  from  finalisation  of  the  basis  of  allotment  in  making  such  refund,  the  special 
purpose  distinct  entity  and  its  directors  or  trustees  shall  be  liable  jointly  and  severally  to 
repay the application moneys together with interest at fifteen per cent per annum;  
(c) 
that in the event any stock exchange to which an application for listing is made under 
subsection  (2)  of  section  17A  of  the  Act  rejects  listing  permission,  the  issuer  and,  if 
necessary, its directors or trustees, shall refund application moneys forthwith in terms of sub-
section (3) thereof.  
21.0 Material documents.  
(1) The following documents and any other document referred to in the offer document as a 
‘material document’ shall be made available for inspection to prospective investors during the 
offer period at the registered office of the issuer or at office of the merchant banker:-  

(a) the constitutional documents of the issuer;  
(b) copies  of  agreement  between  the  issuer  and  the  servicer,  credit  enhancer,  and  liquidity 

provider where relevant;  

(c) copies of agreement with credit enhancer;  
(d) documents of assignment of the assets under the securitisation transaction;  
(e) copies of agreements with underwriters,  
(f)  the originator’s board resolutions, shareholders resolution, if applicable, and approval by 

existing debt holders, where applicable;  

(g) all reports, letters and other documents, valuations and statements by any expert any part 

of which is included or referred to in the offer document;  

(h) the  audited  accounts  of  the  originator  or,  where  it  has  subsidiaries,  the  consolidated 
audited accounts of the originator and its subsidiaries for each of the five financial years 
preceding  the  publication  of  the  offer  document,  including,  all  notes,  reports  or 
information required by the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) to  be annexed or attached 
thereto.  

Detailed  disclosures  shall  be  given  as  to  the  manner  in  which  the  above  documents 

(2) 
may be inspected.  
(3)  Where any of the above documents are not in English, translations into English must 
also be available for inspection. 

40[SCHEDULE VA 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Securitised Debt 

Instruments and Security Receipts) Regulations, 2008 

(See regulation 38E) 

DISCLOSURES TO BE MADE IN THE OFFER DOCUMENT 

 
The  offer  document  shall  contain  all  material  information  which  shall  be  true  and 
adequate so as to enable the investors to make informed decision on the investment in the 
issue. 
 
The  disclosures  shall  be  part  of the  objects  of  the  issue  in  the  offer  document  and  shall 
include: 
 
A.  Details of non-performing loans acquired by the issuer/ asset reconstruction company 

from various banks. Such details shall, inter-alia, include the following: 
(i)  date of NPA classification;  
(ii)  details of assets; 
(iii)  facility-wise limits sanctioned; 
(iv)  nature  of  charge  on  the  underlying  assets  i.e.  1st  charge,  2nd  charge,  exclusive 

charge etc.;  

(v)  share in total debt;  
(vi)  details of guarantor(s), if any;  
(vii)  details of custody of original title deeds; 
(viii)  litigation, if any;  

(ix)  willful defaulters, if any;  
(x)  any valuation of collateral providing full details thereof;  
(xi)  inspection report of collateral, if any; 

40 Inserted by  the  SEBI (Public  Offer  and  Listing of  Securitised  Debt  Instruments)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2018 w.e.f. June 26, 2018. 

 

(xii)  material findings in the due diligence report of Asset Reconstruction Company;  
(xiii)  resolution plan formulated by Asset Reconstruction Company, if any; 

 

B.  Details of percentage holding of non-performing loans across other banks.”] 

 
  
 

C.B.BHAVE  
CHAIRMAN  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

