SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (INTERMEDIARIES) REGULATIONS, 

2008 

 Short title and commencement  
 Definitions  

 Application for grant of certificate  
 Disclosure of information  
 Furnishing of information and clarification   
 Verification of information  
 Consideration of application  
 Procedure for grant of certificate  
 Conditions of certificate  
Effect of refusal to grant certificate or expiry of certificate  
Period of validity of certificate  

CONTENTS  
CHAPTER I: PRELIMINARY  
1 
2 
 
 
CHAPTER II: REGISTRATION OF INTERMEDIARIES  
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
 
 
CHAPTER III: GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF INTERMEDIARIES  
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
 
 
CHAPTER IV: INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS  
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
 
 
CHAPTER  V:  ACTION  IN  CASE  OF  DEFAULT  AND  MANNER  OF  SUSPENSION  OR 
CANCELLATION OF CERTIFICATE  
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 

 Definitions  
Cancellation or suspension of registration and other actions  
Appointment of designated authority  
Issuance of notice  
Reply by the noticee  
Action in case of default  

 General obligations  
Redressal of investor grievances   
Appointment of compliance officer  
 Investment advice  
 Code of conduct  

Right of inspection by the Board  
Notice before inspection  
Obligations of Intermediary on inspection  
Appointment of auditor or valuer  
Submission of report to the Board  

Procedure for action on receipt of the recommendation.  
 Common order  
Intimation of the order  
Surrender of any certificate of registration  
 Effect of debarment, suspension, cancellation or surrender  
 Appeal to Securities Appellate Tribunal  

7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
 
 
CHAPTER VA:   
33A. Situations when summary procedure to be followed 33B. 
Procedure to be followed under this chapter 33C. Publication of 
order  
 
CHAPTER VI: MISCELLANEOUS  
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
 
 
SCHEDULE ONE  

Manner of service of notice and order and publication of order  
 Directions  
Power of the Board to issue clarifications  
Amendments to other regulations  
 Repeal and savings  

FORM-A: APPLICATION FORM FOR GRANT OF CERTIFICATE   

SCHEDULE TWO -CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING A ‘FIT AND PROPER PERSON’  
SCHEDULE THREE - CODE OF CONDUCT  
SCHEDULE IV - AMENDMENTS TO OTHER REGULATIONS  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA  

EXTRAORDINARY PART – III – SECTION 4  

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
NEW DELHI, MAY 26, 2008  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 26

th

 May, 2008  

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (INTERMEDIARIES) REGULATIONS, 
2008 
 No LAD-NRO/GN/2008/11/126538 In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 of  
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992) the Board hereby makes the 
following regulations, namely: -   

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title and commencement. 

 
1.  (1) These regulations may be called the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 

Regulations, 2008.   
(2) They shall come into force in relation to different classes of intermediaries on such dates as the 
Board may by notification in the Official Gazette appoint:   
Provided that the provisions of Chapters V and VI of these regulations shall come into force on the 
date of publication of these regulations in the Official Gazette.    

 
Definitions.  
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires: -   

(a) “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992);  
(b) “associate” means any person controlled, directly or indirectly, by the intermediary, or any 
person  who  controls,  directly  or  indirectly,  the  intermediary,  or  any  entity  or  person  under 
common control with such intermediary, and where such intermediary is a natural person will 
include any relative of such intermediary and where such intermediary is a body corporate will 
include  its  group  companies  (as  defined  in  the  Monopolies  and  Restrictive  Trade  Practices 
Act,  1969  (Act  No.  54  of  1969)  or  any  re-enactment  thereof)  or  companies  under  the  same 
management;  
(c) “certificate” means a certificate of registration granted to an intermediary by the Board 
under the relevant regulations;   
(d) “change of status or constitution”, in relation to an intermediary includes-  

(i)  amalgamation,  demerger,  consolidation  or  any  other  kind  of  corporate  restructuring 
falling  within  the  scope  of  section  391  of  the  Companies  Act  1956  (1  of  1956)  or  the 
corresponding  provision  of  any other law  for  the  time  being in  force  or  any  agreement or 
arrangement which would have the effect of such corporate restructuring;   
(ii) any change in control of the intermediary;    
(iii) any change in the legal status of the intermediary;   

(e)  “control”,  in  relation  to  an  intermediary  shall  include  the  power  to,  directly  or indirectly, 

control the management or policy decisions of such intermediary by person or persons acting 
individually or in concert;  
(f) “Form” means a Form in Schedule I;  
(g)  “intermediary”  means  a  person  mentioned  in  clauses  (b)  and  (ba)  of  sub-section  (2)  of 
section  11  and  sub-section  (1)  and  (1A)  of  section  12  of  the  Act  and  includes  an  asset 
management  company  in  relation  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Mutual 
Funds)  Regulations, 1996,  a  clearing  member  of  a  clearing  corporation  or  clearing  house  1[, 
foreign  portfolio  investors]  and  a  trading  member  of    a  derivative  segment  2[or  currency 
derivatives  segment] of  a stock  exchange  but does  not  include  3[***]  foreign  venture  capital 
investor, mutual fund, collective investment scheme and venture capital fund;  
(h)  “inspecting  authority”  means  one  or  more  persons  appointed  by  the  Board  to  undertake 
inspection of the books, accounts, records and documents of an intermediary in terms of sub-
regulation (1) of regulation 17;  

(i)  “principal  officer”  means  any  person  who  is  responsible  for  the  activities  of  an 
intermediary and includes-  
(i) proprietor, in the case of a proprietary concern;  
(ii) any partner, in the case of a partnership firm;   
(iii) whole time/executive director/managing director, in the case of a body corporate;  
(iv) trustee, in the case of a trust;  
(v) any key employee; and (vi)any person designated as a principal officer under the 
relevant regulations;  

(j)  “relevant  regulations”  means  any  regulations  made  by  the  Board  applicable  to  a  class  of 
intermediaries;  
(k)  “securities  laws”  means  the  Act,  the  Securities  Contract  (Regulations)  Act  1956  (42  of 
1956), the Depositories Act,1996 (22 of 1996), and the rules and regulations made thereunder;  
(l) “schedule” means a schedule annexed to these regulations;  
(m)  “self  regulatory  organization”  means  an  organization  of  a  class  of  intermediaries  duly 
recognised by or registered with the Board and includes a stock exchange 4[;] 
5[(n) “wilful defaulter” means any person who is categorized as a wilful defaulter by any 
bank or financial institution or consortium  thereof, in accordance with  the guidelines 
on  wilful  defaulters  issued  by  the  Reserve  Bank    of  India  and  includes  any  person 
whose director, promoter or principal officer is categorized as such.] 

 
(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations shall have the meaning assigned 
thereto  under  the  Act;  or  the  Securities  Contracts  (Regulation)  Act,  1956  (42  of  1956)  or  the 
Companies  Act,  1956  (1  of  1956)  or  the  Depositories  Act,  1996  (22  of  1996)  or under  the  rules  or 
regulations made thereunder.  

 

1 Inserted by SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014, w.e.f. 07-01-2014. 
2 Inserted by the SEBI (Stock Brokers and Sub- Brokers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 11.08.2008.  
3  Words  "foreign  institutional investor," omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Foreign  Portfolio  Investors)  Regulations,  2014, 
w.e.f. 7-1-2014. 
4  Substituted  for  the  symbol  “.”  by  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016,  w.e.f. 
25.05.2016. 
5 Inserted by the SEBI (Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 25.05.2016. 

CHAPTER II  

REGISTRATION OF INTERMEDIARIES  

 
Application for grant of certificate.  
3. 

(1)  On  and  from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  an  application,  for  grant  of  a 
certificate to act as an intermediary, shall be made to the Board in Form A of Schedule I with 
such additional information as required to be provided under the relevant regulations, and the 
application fee, as specified in the relevant regulations:  

Provided that the applicant seeking registration to act as a stock broker or sub-broker or  a 
trading  member  or  a  clearing  member  or  a  depository  participant  shall  make  the  application 
along  with  such  additional  information  through  the  stock  exchange  or  through  the  clearing 
corporation of which the applicant is a member or trading member or through the depository in 
which the applicant proposes to act as a participant, as the case may be:  

Provided  further  that  on  and  from  the  date  specified  by  the  Board  by  a  notification  in  the 
Official  Gazette,  an  application  for  registration  to  act as  an  intermediary  as may  be  specified 
by the Board, shall be made to the relevant self regulatory organization in Form A with such 
additional information and the application fee as specified in the relevant regulations.   
(2)  The  stock  exchange,  the  clearing  corporation,  the  depository  or  the  specified  self 
regulatory  organization,  as  the  case  may  be,  shall  examine  the  eligibility  of  the  applicant  in 
terms  of  these  regulations,  relevant  regulations  and  the  rules,  regulations  or  bye-laws  of  the 
concerned stock exchange, clearing corporation, depository or the self regulatory organization 
and  forward  the  application  with  the  application  fees  to  the  Board  along  with  its 
recommendation  as  early  as  possible  but  not  later  than  thirty  days  of  receipt  of  the  complete 
application with the specified application fees.  
(3)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  any  application  made  by  an 
intermediary prior to the commencement of these regulations in relation to such intermediary, 
containing such particulars or as near thereto as are specified in Form A and such additional 
information as required under the relevant regulations which is pending with the Board, shall 
be  treated  as  an  application  made  in  pursuance  of  sub-regulation  (1)  and  be  dealt  with 
accordingly.  
(4) An intermediary, who was granted a certificate under the relevant regulations prior to the 
commencement  of  these  regulations  in  relation  to  such  intermediary,  may  continue  to  act  as 
such, subject to the following –  

(a)  where  the  certificate  was  granted  for  a  specified  period,  an  application  for  grant  of 
certificate  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  made  by  the  intermediary  at  least  three 
months  prior  to  the  expiry  of  such  period  or  three  months  prior  to  expiry  of  two  years 
from the commencement of these regulations in relation to such intermediary, whichever 
is earlier and if the intermediary fails to do so, it shall cease to act as an intermediary on 
and from the expiry of the aforementioned period;  
(b)  where  a  certificate  has  been  granted  to  an  intermediary  on  a  permanent  basis,  the 
certificate  may  continue  to  be  valid  under  these  regulations  subject  to the  condition  that 
the intermediary shall, within two years of commencement of these regulations in relation 
to  such  intermediary,  furnish  the  information  in  Form  A  to  the  Board  and  upload  the 
information in Part I thereof on the website specified by the Board:  

Provided  that  the  time  specified  in  clause  (b)  may  be  extended  by  the  Board  up  to  a 
period of six months on sufficient reasons being shown by the intermediary.   

(5) An intermediary who has compiled with the provisions of clause (b) of sub-regulation (4), 
shall  be  deemed  to  have  been  granted  certificate  under  these  regulations,  subject  to  the 
payment of fees specified under the relevant regulations.  
(6) Subject to the provisions of the relevant regulations, an applicant or an intermediary as the 
case  may  be  may  carry  on  the  activities  of  one  or  more  intermediaries  only  if  it  obtains  a 
separate certificate to carry on each such activity.  

 
Disclosure of information.   
4. 

(1) The information contained in Part I of Form A shall be disclosed to the public by uploading 
such information on the website as specified by the Board:  
Provided that the other relevant information furnished by the intermediary in Part II of Form A 
which  relates  to  commercial  confidence  and  private  information  of  the  intermediary,  may  be 
treated as confidential by the Board.  
(2)    Any  material  change  in  the  information  furnished  or  uploaded  under  these  regulations 
shall be updated by the intermediary promptly but not later than fifteen days of the occurrence 
of such change.   

 

 

 
Furnishing of information and clarification.   
5. 

(1)  The  Board  may  require  the  applicant  to  furnish  further  information  or  clarifications, 
regarding matters relevant to the activity of such an intermediary or which may otherwise be 
considered necessary by the Board, to consider and dispose of the application.   
(2)  The  applicant  shall  furnish  such  information  and  clarification  to  the  satisfaction    of  the 
Board, within the time specified in this regard by the Board.  

 
Verification of information.  
6. 

(1)  While  considering  the  application,  the  information  furnished  by  the  applicant  and  its 
eligibility,  the  Board  may,  if  it  so  desires,  verify  the  information  by  physical  verification  of 
documents,  office  space,  and  inspect  the  availability  of  office  space,  infrastructure,  and 
technological support which the applicant is required to have.  
(2) For the purpose under sub-regulation (1), the Board may appoint any person including an 
auditor.  

 
Consideration of application.   
7. 

(1) For considering the eligibility of the applicant and grant of certificate to such applicant, the 
Board  shall  take  into  account  all  matters  which  it  deems  relevant  to  the  activities  in  the 
securities market, including but not limited to the following -  
(a)  whether  the  applicant  or  any  of  its  associates  have  in  the  past  been  refused  certificate  by 
the Board and if so, the ground for such refusal;  
(b)  whether  the  applicant,  its  directors  or  partners,  or  trustees,  as  the  case  may  be  or  its 
principal  officer  is  involved  in  any  pending  litigation  connected  with  the  securities  market 
which  has  an  adverse  bearing  on  the  business  of  the  applicant  or  on  development  or 
functioning of the securities markets;  

(c) whether the applicant satisfies the eligibility criteria and other requirements as specified in 
these regulations and the relevant regulations;  
(d) whether the grant of a certificate to the applicant is in the interest of the investors and the 
development of the securities market.  
(2) Any application for grant of certificate:-   
(a) which is not complete in all respects and does not conform to the requirements in Form A 
and the requirements specified in the relevant regulation;  
(b) which does not contain such additional information as required by the Board;  
(c) which is incorrect, false or misleading in nature;  
(d) where the applicant is not in compliance with the eligibility requirements as set out under 
these regulations or  the relevant regulations;  
(e) where the applicant is not a ‘fit and proper person' as stated in Schedule II;  
(f)  where  the  principal  officer  does  not  have  the  requisite  qualification  or  experience  as 
required under the relevant regulations;  
shall be rejected by the Board for reasons to be recorded by the Board in writing.  
(3) Before rejecting an application, the applicant shall be given an opportunity in writing to 
make good the deficiencies within the time specified by the Board, for    the purpose:   
Provided  that  where  an  application  is  rejected  for  the  reason  that  it  contains  false  or 
misleading information, no such opportunity may be given and the applicant shall not make 
any application for grant of certificate under these regulations or any other regulations for a 
period of one year from the date of such rejection.  

 
Procedure for grant of certificate.  
8. 

(1) The Board on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible, shall grant a certificate in the 
form  specified  in  the  relevant  regulations  and  send  an  intimation  to  the  applicant  in  this 
regard:  
Provided  that  where  a  pending  proceeding  before  the  Board  or  any  court  or  tribunal  may 
result in the suspension or cancellation of the certificate, the Board may give a conditional 
registration.  
(2)  When  an  intermediary,  who  has  been  granted  a  certificate  and  who  has  filed  Form  A 
under  these  regulations,  wishes  to  commence  a  new  activity  which  requires  a  separate 
certificate  under  the  relevant  regulations,  it  shall,  while  seeking  such  certificate,  not  be 
required to file Form A, and shall furnish to the Board only such additional information as 
is required under the relevant regulations.  

Conditions of certificate.   
9. 

(1)  Any  certificate  granted  by  the  Board  to  an  intermediary  shall  be  subject  to the  following 
conditions, namely:—  
(a)  where  the  intermediary  proposes  to  change  its  status  or  constitution,  it  shall  obtain  prior 
approval  of the Board  for  continuing  to  act  as  an  intermediary  after  such  change  in  status  or 
constitution;   
(b) 
(c) 
and circulars  as may be issued thereunder;   
(d) it shall continuously comply with the requirements of regulation 4;  

 it shall pay the applicable fees in accordance with the relevant regulations;    
it  shall  abide  by  the    provisions  of  the  securities  laws  and  the  directions,  guidelines 

(e)  it  shall  meet  the  eligibility  criteria  and  other  requirements  specified  in  these  regulations 
and the relevant regulations:  

 

Provided that the  Board  may  impose  other  conditions as  it  may  deem  fit  in  the  interest  of 
investors  or  orderly  development  of  the  securities market  or  for  regulation  of  the  working  of 
the intermediary and the intermediary shall comply with such conditions.  
(2) A request for prior approval, under clause (a) of sub regulation (1) which is complete in all 
respects  shall  be  disposed  off  by  the  Board  within  a  period  of  sixty  days  from  the  date  of 
receipt of such request and where the decision of the Board has not been communicated to the 
intermediary within the said period of sixty days, the prior approval  shall be deemed to have 
been granted.   
(3)  The  request  for  prior  approval  under  clause  (a)  of  sub  regulation  (1)  shall  contain  the 
information  in  Form  A  in  respect  of  the  intermediary  after  the  proposed  change  in  status  or 
constitution  and  the  information  under  Part  I  of  Form  A  shall  be  uploaded  in  the  website 
specified by the Board.  

 
Effect of refusal to grant certificate or expiry of certificate.  
10. (1) Where an intermediary has failed to make an application under sub-regulation  

(4)  of  regulation  3  or  where  an  existing  intermediary  has  been  refused  grant  of  certificate 
under these regulations, the intermediary shall:  

(a) forthwith cease to act as such intermediary;  
(b) transfer its activities to another intermediary  which has been granted a certificate for 
carrying on such activity and allow its clients or investors to withdraw or transfer their 
securities or funds held in its custody without any additional cost to such client or investor;   
(c) make provisions as regards  liability incurred or assumed by the intermediary;  
(d) take such other action, within the time period and in the manner, as may be required under 
the relevant regulations or as may be directed by the Board.  
 
(2) While refusing grant of certificate under these regulations to an intermediary, the Board 
may impose such conditions upon the intermediary as it deems fit for protection of investors 
or clients of the intermediary or the securities market and such conditions shall be complied 
with.  

 
Period of validity of certificate.   
11. 

Subject  to  compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  these  regulations  and  the  relevant 
regulations,  the  certificate  granted  to  an  intermediary  shall  be  permanent  unless 
surrendered  by  the  intermediary  or  suspended  or  cancelled  in  accordance  with  these 
regulations.    

 

GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF INTERMEDIARIES  

CHAPTER III  

 
General obligations.  
12. 

(1) An intermediary shall provide the Board with a certificate of its compliance officer on 

st

the 1

 April of each year certifying:  

(a)  the  compliance  by  the  intermediary  with  all  the  obligations,  responsibilities  and  the 
fulfillment  of  the  eligibility  criteria  on  a  continuous  basis  under  these  regulations  and  the 
relevant regulations;  
(b)  that  all  disclosures  made  in  Form  A  and  under  the  relevant  regulations  are  true  and 
complete.  

 
(2) Each intermediary shall prominently display a photocopy of the certificate at all its offices 
including branch offices.   
(3)  The  intermediary  shall  also  prominently  display  the  name  and  contact  details  of  the 
compliance officer to whom complaint may be made in the event of any investor grievance.  
(4)  The  intermediary  shall  maintain  such  books,  accounts  and  records  as  specified  in  the 
relevant regulations.  

 
Redressal of investor grievances.  
13.        (1)  The intermediary shall make endeavours to redress investor grievances promptly but 
not later than forty-five days of receipt thereof and when called upon by the  Board to do 
so it shall redress the grievances of investors within the time specified by the Board.  
(2)  The  intermediary  shall  maintain  records  regarding  investor  grievances  received  by  it  and 
redressal of such grievances.  
(3) The intermediary shall at the end of each quarter of a Financial Year ending on 31st March 
upload  information  about  the  number  of  investor  grievances  received,  redressed  and  those 
remaining  unresolved  beyond  three  months  of  the  receipt  thereof  by  the  intermediary  on  the 
website specified by the Board.  

 

Appointment of compliance officer.  

14. 

(1) An intermediary shall appoint a compliance officer for monitoring the compliance by it of 
the  requirements  of  the  Act,  rules,  regulations,  notifications,  guidelines,  circulars  and  orders 
made  or  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central  Government,  or  the  rules,  regulations  and  bye-
laws of the concerned stock exchanges, or the self regulatory organization, where applicable:  
Provided that the intermediary may not appoint compliance officer if it is not carrying on the 
activity of the intermediary.  
(2) The compliance officer shall report to the intermediary or its board of directors, in writing, 
of any material non-compliance by the intermediary.   

 
Investment advice.  
15.  (1)  An  intermediary,  its  directors,  officers,  employees  or  key  management  personnel  shall  not 
render,  directly  or  indirectly,  any  investment  advice  about  any  security  in  the  publicly 
accessible  media,  whether  real-time  or  non-real-time,  unless  a  disclosure  of  its  interest, 
direct  or  indirect,  including  its  long  or  short  position  in  the  said  security  has  been  made, 
while rendering such advice.  

 If  an  intermediary’s  directors,  officers,  employees  or  key  management  personnel          

(2)  
are  rendering  such  advice,  the  intermediary  shall  ensure  that  while  rendering  such  advice  he 
discloses  his  interest,  the  interest  of  his  dependent  family members  and  that  of  the  employer 

including employer’s long or short position in the said security.  
(3)   An  intermediary  shall  not  make  a  recommendation to any  client  or  investor  who  may 
be  expected  to  rely  thereon  to  acquire,  dispose  of  or  retain  any  securities  unless  he  has 
reasonable grounds to believe that the recommendation is suitable.   

 
Code of conduct.   
16.  An  intermediary  and  its  directors,  officers,  employees  and  key  management  personnel  shall 

continuously abide by the code of conduct specified in Schedule III.   

 

CHAPTER IV  

INSPECTION AND DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS  

 
Right of inspection by the Board.  
17.  (1)   Without  prejudice  to the  provisions  of  section  11  and  section 11C  of  the  Act,  the Board  may 
appoint one or more persons as inspecting authority to undertake the inspection of the books, 
accounts,  records  including  telephone  records  and  electronic  records  and  documents  of  an 
intermediary for any purpose, including the purposes as specified under sub-regulation (2).  

(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) may include:-  

 

(a)  to  ensure  that  the  books  of  account,  records  including  telephone  records  and  electronic 
records    and  documents  are  being  maintained  in  the  manner  required  under  the  relevant 
regulations;  
(b)  to  ascertain  whether  adequate  internal  control  systems,  procedures  and  safeguards  have 
been established and are being followed by the intermediary to fulfill its obligations under the 
relevant regulations;    
(c)  to  ascertain  whether  any  circumstances  exist  which  would  render  the  intermediary  unfit  or 
ineligible;   
(d)  to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  securities  laws  and  the  directions  or  circulars 
issued thereunder are being complied with;  
(e) to inquire into the complaints received from investors, clients, other market participants or 
any other person on any matter having a bearing on the activities of the  intermediary;  
(f) to inquire suo motu into such matters as may be deemed fit in the interest of investors or the 
securities market.   

 
Notice before inspection.  
18.  (1)  Before  undertaking  an  inspection  under  regulation  17,  the  inspecting  authority  shall  give  a 

notice to the concerned intermediary:  
Provided that where the inspecting authority is satisfied that in the interest of the investors no 
such  notice  should be  given, it  may,  for  reasons  to  be        recorded  in  writing,  dispense  with 
such notice.  
 
(2)  During  the  course  of  inspection,  the  intermediary  shall  be  bound  to  discharge  its 

obligations provided under regulation 19.  

 

Obligations of Intermediary on inspection.  

19. (1) It shall be the duty of every director, proprietor, partner, trustee, officer, employee and any 
agent of an intermediary which is being inspected, to produce to the inspecting authority 
such  books,  accounts,  records  including  telephone  records  and  electronic  records  and 
documents  in  his  custody  or  control  and  furnish  to  the  inspecting  authority  with  such 
statements  and  information  relating  to  its  activities  within  such  time  as  the  inspecting 
authority may require.  

(2)  The  intermediary  shall  allow  the  inspecting  authority  to  have  reasonable  access  to  the 
premises  occupied  by  such  intermediary  or  by  any  other  person  on  its  behalf  and  also  extend 
reasonable facility for examining any books, records including telephone records and electronic 
records and documents in the possession of the intermediary or any such other person and also 
provide copies of documents or other material which in the opinion of the inspecting authority 
are relevant for the purposes of the inspection.   
(3)  
 Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 11 of the Act,         the 
inspecting  authority  shall,  in  the  course  of  inspection,  be  entitled  to  examine  or  record 
statements  of  any  principal  officer,  director,  trustee,  partner,  proprietor  or  employee  of  such 
intermediary.   
(4)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  director,  proprietor,  trustee,  partner,  officer  and  employee  of 
such  intermediary  to  give  to  the  inspecting  authority  all  assistance  which  the  inspecting 
authority may reasonably require in connection with the inspection.  

 
Appointment of auditor or valuer.  

20. (1)  The Board may appoint a qualified auditor to inspect the books of account or the affairs of 

an intermediary:  
Provided  that  the  auditor  so  appointed  shall  have  the  same  powers  of  the  inspecting 
authority  mentioned  in  regulation  17  and  the  obligation  of  the  intermediary  and  its 
employees  mentioned  in  regulation  19  shall  be  applicable  to      the  inspection  under  this 
regulation.  
Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  this  sub-regulation,  the  expression  ‘qualified  auditor’ 
shall have the meaning derived from section 226 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956).  
(2) The Board may appoint a qualified valuer or direct a qualified valuer to be appointed by the 
intermediary, if so considered necessary by the Board.   
(3)  The  expenses  of  such  audit  under  sub-regulation  (1)  or  valuation  under  sub-regulation  (2) 
shall be borne by the intermediary.   

 
Submission of report to the Board.  

21.  (1)  The  inspecting  authority  shall  submit  an inspection  report including  interim   reports  to  the 

Board.  

(2)   On submission of the inspection report, the Board may take such action thereon as         it 

may deem fit and appropriate.   

 

CHAPTER V  

ACTION  IN  CASE  OF  DEFAULT  AND  MANNER  OF  SUSPENSION  OR 

CANCELLATION OF CERTIFICATE   

 
Definitions.  

22. In this Chapter unless the context otherwise requires, -  

(a) “date of receipt of reply” includes the date on which the noticee makes oral submissions, if any;  
(b) “designated authority” means an officer of the Board and includes a bench of such officers 
appointed under regulation 24;  
(c) “designated member” means the Chairman or a Whole Time Member of the Board designated 
for the purpose;  
6[(ca) “Executive Director” means an officer of the Board who is appointed as such by the Board;] 
(d)  

“noticee” means the person to whom a notice has been issued under this Chapter.  

 
Cancellation or suspension of registration and other actions.  

23.  Where  any  person  who  has  been  granted  a  certificate  of  registration  under  the  Act  or  regulations 

made thereunder, –  
(a) fails to comply with any conditions subject to which a certificate of registration has been 
granted to him;  
(b) contravenes any of the provisions of the securities laws or directions, instructions or circulars 
issued thereunder;   

 

the Board may, without prejudice to any action under the securities laws or directions, instructions 
or  circulars  issued  thereunder,  by  order  take  such  action  in  the  manner  provided  under  these 
regulations.  

 
Appointment of designated authority.   

24. 7[(1) Where it appears to the designated member, that any person who has been granted a certificate 
of registration under the Act and regulations made thereunder has committed any default of the nature 
specified in regulation 23, the designated member may approve the initiation of proceedings under this 
Chapter against such person. 
(2) The Executive Director shall thereafter appoint an officer not below the rank of a Division Chief, as 
a designated authority:  
Provided that the executive director may, at his discretion, appoint a  bench  of  three  officers,  each  of  
whom  shall not  be  below  the  rank  of  a Division Chief:  
Provided  further  that  such  bench  shall  be  presided  by  the  senior  most  amongst  them  and  all  the 
decisions or recommendations of such bench shall be by way of majority.] 

 

6  Inserted by  the  Securities     and    Exchange     Board     of    India  (Intermediaries)  (Amendment) Regulations,  2017, 
w.e.f. 21.11.2017 
7 Substituted ibid. prior to substitution, the sub-regulation read as follows: 
“(1)  Where  it appears  to the designated member,  that  any person who  has  been  granted certificate of  registration 
under the Act, regulations made thereunder has committed any default of the nature specified in regulation 23, he 
may appoint an officer not below the rank of a Division Chief, as a designated authority:  
Provided that the designated member may, at his discretion, appoint a bench of three officers, each of whom shall 
not  be  below  the  rank  of  a  Division  Chief:    Provided  further  that  such  bench  shall  be  presided  by  the  senior  most 
amongst them and all the decisions or recommendations of such bench shall be by way of majority.” 

8[(3)] No officer who has conducted investigation or inspection in respect of the alleged violation shall 
be appointed as a designated authority.  

 
Issuance of notice.   

25. (1) The designated authority shall, if it finds reasonable grounds to do so, issue a notice to the 
concerned person requiring him to show cause as to why the certificate of registration granted to it, 
should not be suspended or cancelled or why any other action provided herein should not be taken.  
(2)  Every notice under sub-regulation (1) shall specify the contravention alleged to have been 
committed by the noticee indicating the provisions of the Act, rules, regulations, circulars or guidelines 
in respect of which the contravention is alleged to have taken place.  
(3)    There shall be annexed to the notice issued under sub- regulation (1) copies of  documents relied 
on in making of the imputations and extracts of relevant portions of documents, reports containing the 
findings arrived at in an investigation or inspection, if any, carried out.  
(4)     The  noticee  shall  be  called  upon  to  submit  within  a  period  to  be  specified  in  the  notice,  not 
exceeding  twenty-one  days  from  the  date  of  service  thereof,  a  written  representation  along  with 
documentary evidence, if any, in support of the representation to the designated authority. 

 

  Reply by the noticee.  

26. (1) The noticee shall submit to the designated authority its written representation within the period 
specified in the notice along with documentary  evidence, if any, in support thereof: Provided 
that the designated authority may extend the time specified in the notice for sufficient grounds 
shown by the noticee and after recording reasons in writing.  

(2)  If  the  noticee  does  not  reply  to  the  show  cause  notice,  the  designated  authority  may  proceed 
with the matter ex-parte recording the reasons for doing so and make recommendation as the 
case may be on the basis of material facts available before it.  

  
Action in case of default.  

27. 

After considering the representations, if any, of the noticee, the facts and circumstances of the 
case and applicable provisions of law or directions, instructions or circulars administered by 
the Board the designated authority shall submit a report, where the facts so warrant, 
recommending, –  
(i) suspension of certificate of registration for a specified period;   
(ii) cancellation of certificate of registration;  
(iii) prohibiting the noticee to take up any new assignment or contract or launch a new scheme 
for the period specified in the order;   
(iv) debarring a principal officer of the noticee from being employed or associated with any 
registered intermediary or other registered person for the period specified in the order;  
(v) debarring a branch or an office of the noticee from carrying out activities for the specified 
period;  
(vi) warning the noticee. 

 

 

8 Re-numbered by the Securities   and   Exchange   Board   of   India (Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2017, 
w.e.f. 21.11.2017 

  Procedure for action on receipt of the recommendation.  

28.  (1)  On  receipt  of  the  report  recommending  the  measures  from  the  designated  authority,  the 
designated  member  shall  consider  the  same  and  issue  a  show  cause  notice  to  the  noticee 
enclosing a copy of the report submitted by the designated authority calling upon the noticee to 
submit  its  written  representation  as  to  why  the  action,  including  passing  of  appropriate 
direction, as the designated member considers appropriate, should not be taken.  

(2) The noticee may, within twenty one days of receipt of the notice send a reply to the designated 
member who may pass appropriate order after considering the reply, if any received from the 
noticee  and  providing  the  person  with  an  opportunity  of  being  heard,  as  expeditiously  as 
possible  and  endeavour  shall be made to pass the order within one hundred and twenty days 
from the date of receipt of reply of the notice or hearing.  

 
Common order.  

29.  The designated member may pass a common order in respect of a number of noticees where the 

subject matter in question is substantially the same or similar in nature.   

 
Intimation of the order.  

30. (1)  Every report made by a designated authority and every order passed by the designated member 

under this Chapter shall be dated and signed.  

A copy of the order passed under this Chapter shall be sent to the noticee and  also 

(2)  
uploaded on the website of the Board.   
(3)  
regulatory organization, a copy of the order shall also be sent to the concerned stock exchange, 
clearing corporation, depository or self regulatory organization.    

If the noticee is a member of a stock exchange, clearing corporation, a depository or a self-

 
Surrender of any certificate of registration.  

31. (1) Any person, who has been granted a certificate of registration under the Act or the regulations 
made thereunder, desirous of giving up its activity and surrender the certificate, may make a 
request for such surrender to the Board and while disposing such request, the Board shall not 
be bound by the procedure specified in the foregoing provisions of this Chapter.  

(2) While disposing a request under this regulation, the Board may require the concerned person to 
satisfy the Board the factors as it deems fit, including but not limited to the following -  

(a)  the  arrangements  made  by  the  person  for  maintenance  and  preservation  of  records  and 
other documents required to be maintained under the relevant regulations;  
(b) redressal of investor grievances;  
(c) transfer of records, funds or securities of its clients;  
(d) the arrangements made by it for ensuring continuity of service to the clients;  
(e) defaults or pending action, if any.  

(3) While accepting surrender, the Board may impose such conditions upon the person as it deems 
fit for protection of the investors or its clients or the securities market and such person shall comply 
with such conditions.  

 
Effect of debarment, suspension, cancellation or surrender.  

32. (1)   On and from the date of debarment or suspension of the certificate, the concerned person shall- 

(a)  not  undertake  any  new  assignment  or  contract  or  launch  any  new  scheme  and  during  the 
period  of  such  debarment  or  suspension  it    shall  cease  to  carry  on  any  activity  in  respect  of 
which certificate had been granted;  
(b)  allow  its  clients  or  investors  to  withdraw  or  transfer  their  securities  or  funds  held  in  its 
custody or withdraw any assignment given to it, without any additional cost to such client or 
investor;  
(c) make provisions as regards  liability incurred or assumed by it;  
 such  other  action  including  the  action  relating  to  any  records  or  documents  and 
(d) take 
securities or money of the investors that may be in custody or control of such person, within 
the time period and in the manner, as may be required under the relevant regulations or as may 
be directed by the Board while passing order under this Chapter or otherwise.  

(2) On and from the date of surrender or cancellation of the certificate, the  concerned person shall-  
(a) return the certificate of registration so cancelled to the Board and shall not represent itself 
to  be  a  holder  of  certificate  for  carrying  out  the  activity  for  which  such  certificate  had  been 
granted;  
(b) cease to carry on any activity in respect of which the certificate had been granted;  
(c) transfer its activities to another person holding a valid certificate of registration to carry on 
such activity and allow its clients or investors to withdraw or transfer their securities or funds 
held  in  its  custody  or to  withdraw  any  assignment  given  to it,  without  any  additional  cost  to 
such client or investor;  
(d) make provisions as regards  liability incurred or assumed by it;  
(e)  take  such  other  action  including  the  action  relating  to  any  records  or  documents  and 
securities or money of the investors that may be in custody or control of such person, within 
the time period and in the manner, as may be required under the relevant regulations or as may 
be directed by the Board while passing order under this Chapter or otherwise.   

 
Appeal to Securities Appellate Tribunal   

33.  The person aggrieved by an order under these regulations may prefer an appeal to the Securities 
Appellate Tribunal against such order in accordance with the provisions of section 15T of the Act 
and Rules prescribed in this regards.  

 

9[CHAPTER VA 
33A. Situations when summary procedure to be followed. -  
Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, any proceedings initiated under Chapter III of the 
erstwhile Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and 
Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002 (repealed vide notification No. LAD-NRO/GN/2008/11/126538 dated 
May 26, 2008) prior to the coming into force of these regulations, shall be disposed of in accordance with 
the provisions of this chapter.  
 
33B. Procedure to be followed under this chapter  

(1) The Chairman or member may appoint an officer of the Board, not below the rank of Assistant 
General  Manager  or  Assistant  Legal  Advisor  for  giving  his  recommendation  after  following  the 

9 Inserted by the SEBI (Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2009, w.e.f. 14.07.2009. 

 

procedure under this regulation in respect of the proceedings referred to in regulation 33A: 
Provided  that  in  respect  of  the  proceedings  referred  to  in  regulation  33A,  if  a  representation  is 
received  from  an  intermediary  to  dispense  with  the  procedure  laid  down  in  regulation  33B,  the 
Chairman  or  the  member  may  not  appoint  an  officer  of  the  Board  under  this  sub-regulation  and 
pass an appropriate order after considering the representation of the intermediary.  
(2)  
The  officer  appointed  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  issue  to  the  intermediary,  against 
whom  the  proceedings  are  being  held,  a  notice  requiring  the  intermediary  to  make  a  written 
submission  in  reply to  the  notice  within such  time,  not  exceeding  fifteen  days  after  the  receipt  of 
the notice, as may be specified in the notice:  
Provided  that  the  officer  may  extend  the  time  mentioned  under  sub-regulation  (2)  for  sufficient 
reasons to be recorded in writing.  
(3)  
If  the  intermediary  fails  to  make  a  written  submission  to  the  notice  within  the  period 
specified  in  the  notice,  the  officer  shall,  after  considering  the  circumstances  and  in  light  of  the 
material  on  record,  submit  a  report  to  the Chairman  or  the member,  as  the  case  may  be,  and may 
recommend  taking  of  any  action  under  regulation  27  as  he  considers  appropriate  in  the 
circumstances of the case and shall give reasons for recommending such action.  
(4)  
 If  the  intermediary  makes  submission  within  the  said  period,  the  officer  shall,  after 
considering  the  submission  so  made, submit  a  report  to  the  Chairman  or  the  member,  as  the  case 
may be, and may recommend taking of any action under regulation 27 as he considers appropriate 
in the circumstances of the case and shall give reasons for recommending such action.  
(5)  The  Chairman  or  the  member,  as the  case  may  be,  after  receipt  of  recommendations  from  the 
officer  under  sub-regulation  (3)  or  sub-regulation  (4),  shall  pass  such  orders  as  he  may  deem 
appropriate.  
(6)  The  Chairman  or  the  member  may  pass  a  common  order  in  respect  of  a  number  of 
intermediaries where the subject matter in question is substantially the same or similar in nature.  
 

33C. Publication of order. - The Board shall issue a press release in respect of an order under this chapter 
in  at  least  two  newspapers  of  which  at  least  one  shall  have  nationwide  circulation  and  shall  also  put  the 
order on the website of the Board.]  

 

10[CHAPTER V B 

POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 

 
Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 
33D.  (1)  The  Board  may,  exempt  any  person  or  class  of  persons  from  the  operation  of  all  or  any  of  the 
provisions  of  these  regulations  for  a  period  as  may  be  specified  but  not  exceeding  twelve  months,  for 
furthering innovation in technological aspects relating to testing new products, processes, services, business 
models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets. 
(2) Any exemption granted by the Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject to the applicant satisfying 
such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be complied with on a continuous 
basis. 

10 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 

 

Explanation.  —  For  the  purposes  of  these  regulations,  "regulatory  sandbox"  means  a  live  testing 
environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed on a limited 
set  of  eligible  customers  for  a  specified  period  of  time,  for  furthering  innovation  in  the  securities  market, 
subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] 
 

CHAPTER VI  

MISCELLANEOUS  

 
Manner of service of notice and order and publication of order.  

34. (1) Any notice issued or order passed under these regulations may be served -  

(a) by hand delivery to the concerned person or his duly authorized agent; or  
(b) by delivery, at the address available on the records of the Board and addressed to that person 
or his duly authorized agent, by registered post acknowledgement due or by speed post or by such 
courier service or by electronic mail service or by any other means of transmission which affords 
a record of delivery; or   
(c)  in  case  of  a  stock  broker  or  a  sub-broker  or  a  depository  participant  through  the  concerned 
stock exchange or the depository respectively; and  
(d) if it cannot be served as per clause (a) or (b) or (c), by affixing the same on the door or some 
other  conspicuous  part  of  the  premises  in  which  such  person  resides  or  is  known  to  have  last 
resided or carries on business or is known to have last carried on business or personally works for 
gain or is known to have last personally worked for gain.  
 
(2) Every order passed under these regulations shall be put on the website of the Board.  

   
 

   Directions.  

35.  Without  prejudice  to    any  order  under  the  securities  laws  and  the  directions,  guidelines  and 
circulars as may be issued thereunder  including an order under Chapter V of these regulations the 
Board  may  in  the  interest  of  the  securities  market,  in  the  interest  of  the  investors  or  for  the 
purpose  of  securing  the  proper  management  of  any  intermediary,  issue,  necessary  direction 
including but not limited to any or all of the following -  

(a) directing the intermediary or other  persons associated with securities market to refund any 
money  or  securities  collected  from  the  investors  under  any  scheme  or  otherwise  ,with  or 
without  interest;  
(b) directing the intermediary or other  persons associated with securities market not to access 
the capital market or not to deal in securities  for a particular period or not to associate with any 
intermediary or with any capital market related activity;  
(c) directing the recognised stock exchange concerned not to permit trading in the securities or 
units issued by a mutual fund or collective investment scheme;  
(d)  directing  the  recognised  stock  exchange  concerned  to  suspend  trading  in  the  securities  or 
units issued by a mutual fund or collective investment scheme;  
(e)  any  other  direction  which  the  Board  may  deem  fit  and  proper  in  the  circumstances  of  the 
case:  

 

Provided that before issuing any directions the Board shall give a reasonable opportunity of 

being  heard  to  the  persons  concerned:  Provided  further  that  if  the  circumstances  warrant  any 
interim  direction  is  required  to  be  passed  immediately,  the  Board  shall  give  a  reasonable 
opportunity of hearing to the persons concerned after passing the direction, without any undue 
delay. 

Power of the Board to issue clarifications.  

36.  In  order  to  remove  any  difficulties  in  the  application  or  interpretation  of  these  regulations,  the 

Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars.  

Amendments to other regulations.  

37.  The  regulations  specified  in  the  Schedule  IV  shall  be  amended  in  the  manner  and  to  the  extent 

stated therein.  

Repeal and savings  

38. (1) With effect from publication of these regulations in the Official Gazette –  

(a) the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry 
Officer and imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002; and   
(b) the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Criteria for Fit and Proper Persons) Regulations, 
2004 shall be repealed.  

 
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under those regulations including an 
enquiry  commenced  or  notice  issued  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for 
Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002, before the publication of 
these regulations in the Official Gazette, shall be deemed to have been done or taken or commenced under 
the corresponding provisions of these  regulations.  
 
(3)  After  the  repeal  of  the  regulations  referred  to  in  sub-regulation  (1),  any  reference  thereto  in  any 
regulation,  guidelines,  circulars  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  reference  to  Chapter  V  and  Schedule  II, 
respectively.  
 

 

SECURITIES  AND  EXCHANGE  BOARD  OF 

INDIA 

(INTERMEDIARIES) 

SCHEDULE I  

REGULATIONS, 2008  
[Regulation 3]  

FORM A 

Application for grant of certificate 

 

The information contained herein is updated as on: dd/mm/yy  
INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING UP FORM –  

Applicants must submit to the Board a completed application form together with appropriate 

1 
supporting documents and applicable application fees. Supporting documents should be attested as true by a 
notary public.  
2 
3 
4 
5 

 This application form should be filled in accordance with the regulations.  
 Application for registration will be considered, only if it is complete in all respects.  
 All answers must be typed.  
 Information which needs to be supplied in more detail may be given on separate sheets which 

 All signatures on the application must be original.  
 Every page of the form as well as every additional sheet must be initialed by the authorised 

should be attached to the application form.  
6 
7 
signatory of the applicant.  
 

Part I  

1.  General details of the applicant and its affiliates: Management Compliance Matrix/Structure  

1.1. Name of the applicant:  
1.2.  Address of  the  registered  office,  address  for  correspondence,  telephone  numbers,  fax  numbers,  e-
mail, website, name and telephone number of the contact person, address of branch office, if any:  

1.3.  Date  and  place  of  incorporation/establishment  and  registration  number  given  by  the  Registrar  of 

Companies or any other authority:  

1.4. Legal status of the applicant and the law, under which it is incorporated, established or registered, if 
any including where the applicant is a listed entity, the details of the exchanges (whether in India 
or abroad) where the applicant is listed:  

1.5. Brief description of the principal activity of the applicant: (along with copies of the constitutional 

documents of the applicant)   

1.6. Year of commencement of such activities ( if applicable):  
1.7.  Shareholding  pattern  of  the  applicant  (please  set  out  the  names  of  all  such  persons  who  hold 
whether directly or indirectly more than 5% of the shareholding or voting rights in the company):    

Where  control  over  the  applicant  is  exercised  by  a  person  by  way  of  an  agreement  or  arrangement, 
details and documentation in relation to such agreement or arrangement as the case may be.   

1.8. Details of significant affiliates of the applicant operating in India or abroad and activities carried out by 
them including details as regards the legal status of each such affiliates and the law, under which it is 
incorporated, established or registered, if any  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Legal Status and 
details of registration   

 Name  

Address  

Telephone no  

Fax No  

E-mail address  

Nature of interest of 
the applicant in the 
affiliate, if any  

Nature of interest of 
such affiliate in the 
applicant, if any  

 

1.9. Details of registration / recognition of the applicant with the Board and with other regulatory 
authorities  or  with  stock  exchanges  or  self  regulatory  organization  (whether  in  India  or 
abroad):    

The  

Details 

 of    Registration No.   

Period of validity  

Regulator   registration 

/ SRO  

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
1.10. Details of registration / recognition of each affiliates of the applicant with the Board or with 
other regulatory authorities or with stock exchanges or self regulatory organizations (whether 
in India or abroad):    

The  

Details 

 of    Registration No.   

Period of validity  

Regulator   registration 

 
 

/ SRO  

 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

1.11 Details of the Compliance Officer:  1.12 Details of principal officers  

Name  

Job Title  

Business 
Address  

 

Telephone 
no  

Fax No  

E-mail 
address  

 

Name 
Person  
 
 
 

Name 
Person  
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Of   Responsibility  

Qualification / Experience  

 
 

 
 

 
 

1.13 Details of the Key Management Personnel    

Of   Responsibility  

Qualification /  Experience  

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
1.14  
1.15  

Sr. 
No.  
 
 

Details of any conviction or any declaration of insolvency/winding-up of the applicant.  
Details  of  actions  taken  against  the  applicant  or  its  associates  by  any  regulatory 
authorities.  

Authority   Description of alleged 

Action taken  

Current status  

 

default   
 

 

 

Explanation:  For  the  purpose  of  this  clause  “affiliate”  shall  mean  where  the  applicant  is  a 
company,  its  holding  company  and  its  subsidiaries  and  where  the  applicant  is  an  individual 
his/her dependant relatives.  

2.  Details  of  arbitration/litigation  which  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect  on  the 

functioning of the intermediary and investor complaints.  

2.1 Complaints pending for over three months:  
2.2 Arbitration / litigation cases:  
Brief description of the group  

Date of receipt of 
complaint   
 

Short description of 
complaint  
 

Current 
status  
 

 
 
2 
 
S. 
No.  
 
 
Forum   Name of 

Name of the 
complainant  
 

the 
Petitioner  

Short 
description of 
issue  

Current 
stage of 
proceedings  

Details of 
interim 
orders 
passed  
 

Details of 
final award / 
order  

 

 

 

 

 

Brief description of the group, if any, to which the applicant belongs. Please confirm the 

 
1 
details of the company and the group, tracing them down to the individual persons in control.  
2 
 
4.1  Provide the following details of the directors /  partners /  trustees of the applicant  as the case 

Management Details:  

may be:   

Name  

Details of 
interest in the 
applicant  

Directorships 
in other 
entities  

 

 

 

 

Controlling 
interest in 
other entities  

 
4.2 Names of Promoters of the Applicant should be provided.   

Part II  

5. Financial Reporting and Disclosure (where the intermediary is active):  
5.1  Audited  balance  sheets  and  profit  and  loss  account  statements  for  the  past  three  years 

(including notes to accounts);  

5.2  Net  Worth  of  the  applicant  for  the  past  three  years;  segment  wise  turnover  of  the 

applicant  (where  necessary)  [for  eg.  where  the  applicant  is  a  stock  broker,  then  the 
segment  wise  turnover  i.e.  turnover  under  the  cash  segment,  the  derivative  segment,  the 
commodities segment etc. may be provided)  
6.  Details of the taxation authority:  
6.1 Please provide details of the authority where the applicant is subject to taxation.  

Permanent Account Number/Registration Number/Code given by tax authority (if any) of 

1 
the applicant and its directors, as applicable::  
2 
 

Details of promoters and management personnel  

7.1  Provide  address  and  contact  details  (including  telephone  numbers,  email,  fax  etc.)  of  the 

applicant’s promoters as specified in Clause 4.2 of Part I of the Form.  

7.2 Provide details of address and contact details (including telephone numbers, email, fax etc.) 

of the applicant’s management personnel as specified in Clause  
4.1 of Part I of the Form.  

7.3 Provide Director’s Identification Number of the directors of the applicant  

8.Details of any show cause notices received by the applicant from any regulatory authority. 
   
 
Sr. No.   Date 

alleged   Current status  

of   Details 

of  

 

Notice  
 

 

violation  
 

 

 
9.Undertaking and Declarations:  
 

 

 

We hereby represent, warrant and declare that:  

We are in compliance with, and have adhered to and fulfilled, all the criteria and conditions 

The information supplied in the application, including the attachment sheets thereto, is 

1 
complete, true and accurate in all respects;  
2 
applicable for grant of certificate;   
3 
of India of any change in the information provided in the application in the manner as set out 

We further undertake that we will immediately notify the Securities and Exchange Board 

We further undertake that we shall comply with the provisions of the Securities and 

under the regulations;  
4 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 and the rules, regulations, guidelines, notifications, circulars, 
and any other directions as may be passed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India from 
time to time, issued thereunder and applicable to us, and all other relevant laws including 
guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India and the Government of India.  
5 
operational instructions/ directives as may be issued by Securities and Exchange Board of India 
from time to time under provisions of the Act or any other law for the time being in force.  
 

We further undertake that as a condition of grant of certificate, we shall abide by such 

For and on behalf of (Name of the applicant)  

Name of the applicant 

 Signature  

Name of signatory  

Position   

Date  

Notes:  

 

 

 

 

dd/mm/yyyy 

 

SCHEDULE II 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (INTERMEDIARIES) 

REGULATIONS, 2008 

(See regulations 7)  

Criteria for determining a ‘fit and proper person’  
For the purpose of determining as to whether an applicant or the intermediary is a ‘fit and proper 
person’ the Board may take account of any consideration as it deems fit, including but not limited 
to the following criteria in relation to the applicant or the intermediary, the principal officer 11[, the 
director, the promoter] and the key management persons by whatever name called –  
   
   
   
   
 

(a) integrity, reputation and character;  
(b) absence of convictions and restraint orders;  
(c) competence including financial solvency and networth12[;] 
13[(d) absence of categorization as a wilful defaulter.] 

SCHEDULE III 

 

 

11 Inserted by the SEBI (Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 25.05.2016.  
12 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the SEBI (Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 25.05.2016. 
13 Inserted by the SEBI (Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, w.e.f. 25.05.2016. 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (INTERMEDIARIES) 

REGULATIONS, 2008 

[See regulation 16]  

 

CODE OF CONDUCT  
I. INVESTOR PROTECTION  

1.1 

Investors/Clients  
Every  intermediary  shall  make  all  efforts  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors  and 
shall render the best possible advice to its clients having regard to the client’s needs 
and the environments and his own professional skills.  

1.2  High Standards of Service  

An intermediary shall ensure that it and its key management personnel, employees, 
contractors and agents, shall in the conduct of their business, observe high standards 
of  integrity,  dignity,  fairness,  ethics  and  professionalism  and  all  professional 
dealings shall be affected in a prompt, effective and efficient manner.  
An intermediary shall be responsible for the acts or omissions of its employees and 
agents in respect to the conduct of its business.  
Exercise of Due Diligence and no Collusion  
An intermediary shall at all times render high standards of service, exercise due skill 
and  diligence  over  persons  employed  or  appointed  by  it,  ensure  proper  care  and 
exercise  independent  professional  judgment  and  shall  not  at  any  time  act  in 
collusion with other intermediaries in a manner that is detrimental to the investor(s).  
Fees  
An  intermediary  shall  not  increase  charges/  fees  for  the  services  rendered  without 
proper advance notice to its clients/investors.  

1.3 

1.4 

II. DISBURSAL OF AMOUNTS  

2.1  Disbursal of Amounts  

An  intermediary  shall  be  prompt  in  disbursing  dividends,  interests  or  any  such 
accrual income received or collected by it on behalf of its clients/investors.  

III. DISBURSAL OF INFORMATION  

3.1  An 

intermediary  shall  ensure 

the 
clients/investors  in  a  comprehensible  and  timely  manner  so  as  to  enable  them  to 
make a balanced and informed decision.  

that  adequate  disclosures  are  made 

to 

3.2  An  intermediary  shall  not  make  any  misrepresentation  and  ensure  that  the 

information provided to the clients/investors is not misleading.  

3.3  An  intermediary  shall  not  make  any  exaggerated  statement  whether  oral  or 
written  to  the  client/investor,  either  about  its  qualification  or  capability  to 
render certain  services or its achievements in  regard to  services rendered to  other 
clients/investors.   

3.4  An  intermediary  shall  not  divulge  to  anybody,  either  orally  or  in  writing,  directly  or 
indirectly, any confidential information about its clients/investors, which has come to its 

knowledge,  without  taking  prior  permission  of  its  clients/investors  except  where  such 
disclosures  are  required  to  be  made  in  compliance  with  any  law  for  the  time  being  in 
force.  

IV. CONFLICT OF INTEREST  

4.1  An  intermediary  shall  avoid  conflict  of  interest  and  make  adequate  disclosure  of  his 
interest  and shall put  in  place a mechanism  to  resolve any conflict  of interest  situation 
that may arise in the conduct of its business or where any conflict of interest arises, shall 
take reasonable steps to resolve the same in an equitable manner. An intermediary shall 
make appropriate disclosure to the client/investor of its possible source or potential areas 
of conflict of duties and interest while acting as an intermediary which would impair its 
ability to render fair, objective and unbiased services.  

4.2  An  Intermediary  or  any  of  its  directors,  or  employee  having  the  management  of  the 
whole  or  substantially  the  whole  of  affairs  of  the  business,  or  an  associate  of  the 
intermediary shall not, either through its account or their respective accounts or through 
their family members, relatives or friends indulge in any insider trading.  

V.  COMPLIANCE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  

5.1  An Intermediary shall ensure that good corporate policies and corporate governance is in 
place.  It  shall  not  engage  in  fraudulent  and  manipulative  transactions  in  the  securities 
listed  on  any  stock  exchange  in  India  and  shall  not  indulge  in  any  unfair  competition 
(including resorting to unfair means for inducing another intermediaries’ clients) which 
is  likely  to  harm  the  interests  of  other  intermediaries  or  investors  or  is  likely  to  place 
such  other  intermediaries  in  a  disadvantageous  position  while  competing  for  or 
executing any assignment.  

5.2  An Intermediary shall take adequate and necessary steps to ensure that continuity in data 
and record keeping is maintained and that the data or records are not lost or destroyed. It 
shall  also  ensure  that  for  electronic  records  and  data,  up-to-date  back  up  is  always 
available with it.  

5.3 

An Intermediary shall not be a party to or instrumental in 
or indulge in— a) creation of false market for securities 
listed or proposed to be listed on any stock exchange in 
India; b) price rigging or manipulation of prices of 
securities listed or proposed to be listed on any stock 
exchange in India; or  

c)  passing  of  unpublished  price  sensitive  information  in respect  of  securities  which 
are  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed  on  any  stock  exchange  to  any  person  or 
intermediary, or  

d)  any  activity  for  distorting  market  equilibrium  or  which  may  affect  the  smooth 

functioning of the market or for personal gain.  

5.4  An  Intermediary  shall  co-operate  with  the  Board,  or  any  authority  designated  by  the 
Board, as and when required and shall not  make  any untrue statement or suppress any 
material fact in any documents, reports, papers or information furnished to the Board or 

neglect  or  fail  or  refuse  to  submit  to  the  Board  or  other  agencies  with  which  it  is 
registered,  such  books,  documents,  correspondence  and  papers  or  any  part  thereof  as 
may be demanded/requested from time to time.  

5.5  An  Intermediary  shall  ensure  that  any  change  in  registration  status  /any  penal  action 
taken  by  Board  or  any  material  change  in  financials  which  may  adversely  affect  the 
interests  of  clients/investors  is  promptly  informed  to  the  clients/investors  and  any 
business remaining outstanding is transferred to another registered person in accordance 
with  any  instructions  of  the  affected  clients/investors  or  as  per  the  instructions  of  the 
Board and the provisions of the relevant regulations.  

5.6  An Intermediary shall maintain an appropriate level of knowledge and competency and 
abide  by  the  provisions  of  any  act,  regulations,  circulars  and  guidelines  of  the  Central 
Government,  the  Reserve  Bank  of  India,  the  Board,  the  stock  exchange  or  any  other 
applicable statutory or self regulatory or other body, as the case may be, and as may be 
applicable  to  the  Intermediary  in  respect  of  the  business  carried  on  by  such 
Intermediary.  An  Intermediary  shall  also  comply  with  the  award  of  the  Ombudsman 
passed  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Ombudsman)  Regulations, 
2003.  

5.7  An  Intermediary  shall  ensure  that  the  Board  is  promptly  informed  about  any  action, 
legal  proceedings,  etc.,  initiated  against  it  in  respect  of  any  material  breach  or  non-
compliance  by  it,  of  any law, rules,  regulations, and  directions  of  the  Board  or  of  any 
other regulatory body.  

VI. INTERMEDIARY INFRASTRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS  

6.1  An  Intermediary  shall  have  internal  control  procedures  and  financial  and  operational 
capabilities  which  can  be  reasonably  expected  to  protect  its  operations,  its  clients, 
investors and other registered entities from  financial  loss arising  from  theft, fraud, and 
other dishonest acts, professional misconduct or omissions.  

6.2  An  Intermediary  also  registered  with  the  Board  in  any  other  capacity/  category  shall 
endeavour  to  ensure  that  arms  length  relationship  is  maintained  in  terms  of  both 
manpower  and  infrastructure  between  the  activities  carried  out  as  an  Intermediary  and 
other permitted activities.  

6.3  An Intermediary shall establish and maintain adequate infrastructural facility to be able 
to discharge its services as such intermediary to the satisfaction of clients/investors, and 
the  operating  procedures  and  systems  of  the  intermediaries  shall  be  well  documented 
and backed by operations manuals.  

6.4  An Intermediary shall create and maintain the records of all documents and data in their 
in custody in such manner that the tracing of such document or data is facilitated in the 
event of loss of original records or documents for any reason.  

 
 

SCHEDULE IV 

 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (INTERMEDIARIES) 

REGULATIONS, 2008 

[See regulation 37]  

 

Amendments to other regulations 

 

1.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  (Bankers  to  an  Issue) 

Regulations, 1994.   
(i) For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person   
6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the banker to an issue is a fit 
and proper person, the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.”  

(ii)   In regulation 22, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for 
Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” the words 
“Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 
2008” shall be substituted.   

(iii)   For regulation 23, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely:-  

“Liability for action in case of default  
23.  A  banker  to  issue  who  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Rules  or 
Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more  actions  specified  therein 
including  the  action  under  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.”  

2.   Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India, (Collective Investment Schemes) 

Regulations, 1999  
(i) For regulation 9A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person     
9A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  collective  investment 
management  company  is  a  fit  and  proper  person,  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the 
criteria  specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.”  

(ii)   In regulation 56, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure 
for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” the 
words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.   

(iii) In regulation 59, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure 
for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” the 
words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.  

3.   Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  (Credit  Rating  Agencies) 

Regulations, 1999.  

(i) For regulation 5A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person     
5A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the credit rating agency is 
a  fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  criteria  specified  in 
Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008.”  

(ii)   In regulation 33, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure 
for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” the 
words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.   

(iii)   For  regulation  34,  the  following  regulation  shall  be  substituted,  namely:-  “Liability  for 

action in case of default 
34. A credit rating agency which contravenes any of the provisions of the Act, Rules 
or  Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more  actions  specified 
therein including the action under Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 2008.”   

4.   Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India, (Custodian of Securities) 

Regulations, 1996. 
 

 (i) For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person   
6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the custodian of securities 
is  a  fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  criteria  specified  in 
Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008.”  

(ii)   In regulation 25, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure 
for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” the 
words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.   

(iii)    In  regulation  26,  for  the  words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) 
Regulations,  2002”  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.  

5.   Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India, (Debenture Trustees) 

Regulations, 1993. 
 

(i)  For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person   
6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant  or the debenture trustee is a 
fit and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule 
II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.”  

(ii)   In regulation 23, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure 
for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” the 
words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.   

(iii)    In  regulation  25,  for  the  words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) 
Regulations,  2002”  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.  
Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  (Depositories  and 

6.  

Participants) Regulations, 1996. 

     (i)   For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person   
6A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  depository  and 
participant  is  a  fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  criteria 
specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008.”  

(ii)   In regulation 63, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure 
for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” the 
words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.   

(iii)   

In  regulation  64,  for  the  words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) 
Regulations,  2002”  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.   

7.   Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India, (Foreign Institutional  Investors) 

Regulations, 1995.  

(i) For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person   
6A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  foreign  institutional 
investor is a fit and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in 
Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 
2008.” 

   (ii)    For  regulation  21,  the  following  regulation  shall  be  substituted,  namely:- 

“Liability for action in case of default  
21.  A  foreign  institutional  investor  who  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act, 
Rules  or  Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall  be liable  for  one  or more  actions  specified 
therein  including  the  action  under  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 2008.”   

8.   Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  (Foreign  Venture  Capital 

Investors) Regulations, 2000.  

(i)  For regulation 4A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person   
4A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  foreign  venture  capital 
investor is a fit and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in 
Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 
2008.”  

(ii)   In regulation 23, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for 
Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” the words 
“Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 
2008” shall be substituted.  

9.   Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  (Merchant  Bankers)  

Regulations, 1992.  

(i)  For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person   
6A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  merchant  banker  is  a  fit 
and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.”  

(ii)    In  regulation  33, for  the  words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure 
for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)  Regulations,  2002”  the 
words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.   

 (iii)  For  regulation  35,  the  following  regulation  shall  be  substituted,  namely:-  “Liability  for 

action in case of default 
35.  A  merchant  banker  who  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Rules  or 
Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more  actions  specified  therein 
including  the  action  under  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.”  

10.   Amendment of Securities and Exchange Board of India, (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 

1996.  

(i) For regulation 7A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person     
7A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  mutual  fund  is  a  fit  and 
proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.”  

(ii)   In regulation 65, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for 
Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” the words 
“Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 
2008” shall be substituted.   

(iii)    In  regulation  68, for  the  words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Procedure 
for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)  Regulations,  2002”  the 
words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.  

11.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  (Portfolio  Managers) 

Regulations, 1993.  
(i)  For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person   
6A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant  or the portfolio manager is a fit 
and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II  of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.”  

(ii)   In regulation 28, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for 
Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” the words 
“Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 
2008” shall be substituted.   

(iii)   For  regulation  30, the  following  regulations  shall  be  substituted,  namely:-  “Liability  for 

action in case of default” 
30.  A  portfolio  manager  who  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Rules  or 
Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more  actions  specified  therein 
including  the  action  under  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.”  

12.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  (Registrars  to  an  Issue  and 

Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993.  
(i)  For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person     
6A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  registrar  to  an  issue  and 
share transfer agent is a fit and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria 
specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008.”  

(ii)   In regulation 20, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for 
Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” the words 
“Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 
2008” shall be substituted.   

(iii)    In  regulation  22, for  the  words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India (Procedure 
for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)  Regulations,  2002”  the 
words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.  

13.   Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  (Stock  Brokers  and  Sub-

Brokers) Regulations, 1992.  

(i)   For regulation 5A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person     
5A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant  or the stock broker, sub-broker, 
trading  member  and  clearing  member is  a  fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may take  into 
account the criteria specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.”  

(ii)   In regulation 23, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for 
Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” the words 
“Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 
2008” shall be substituted.  

(iii) In sub-regulation (ii) of regulation 25, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) 
Regulations, 2002” the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.   

(iv)   In regulation 27, for the words “the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Procedure for 
Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty) Regulations, 2002” the words 
“Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Intermediaries)  Regulations, 
2008” shall be substituted.  

14.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  (Underwriters)  Regulations, 

1993.  

(i)   

For regulation 6A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  
“Criteria for fit and proper person   
6A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  underwriter  is  a  fit  and 
proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II of the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.”  
(ii)  In  regulation  23,  for  the  words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India       
(Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)      
Regulations, 2002” the words “Chapter V of the Securities and Exchange       Board of 
India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.   

(iii)  For  regulation  25,  the  following  regulation  shall  be  substituted,  namely:- 
“Liability for action in case of default  
25.  An  underwriter  who  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  Rules  or 
Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall  be  liable  for  one  or  more  actions  specified  therein 
including  the  action  under  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.”  

15.  Amendment  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India,  (Venture  Capital  Funds) 

Regulations, 1996.  
(i) For regulation 4A, the following regulation shall be substituted, namely: -  

“Criteria for fit and proper person   
4A. For the purpose of determining whether an applicant or the venture capital fund is a fit 
and proper person the Board may take into account the criteria specified in Schedule II of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.” 

     (ii)  

In  regulation  30,  for  the  words  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India      

(Procedure for Holding Enquiry by Enquiry Officer and Imposing Penalty)      Regulations, 
2002”  the  words  “Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board            of  India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008” shall be substituted.  

C.B.BHAVE, 

CHAIRMAN  

