THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART –III – SECTION IV 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 20th day of November, 2003 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Central Database of Market Participants) Regulations, 2003 

 
 
 

F. No. SEBI/LE/26/2003 - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 read with sections  
11, 11A, 12 and 19 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the 
Board hereby makes the following Regulations, namely :—   

Chapter I   

PRELIMINARY  

Short Title and Commencement. 

1.  (1)  These  Regulations  may  be  called  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Central 
Database of Market Participants) Regulations, 2003. 

(2) These Regulations shall come into force on such date as may be specified by the Board:   

Provided that different dates may be specified for different provisions of these regulations and 
any  reference  in  any  such  provision  to  the  commencement  of  these  regulations  shall  be 
construed as a reference to the commencement of that provision.   

Definitions. 

2. (1) In the Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires :—   

(a) ‘Act’ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992;   

(b) ‘associate’ in relation to an intermediary or a listed company means a person :   

Page 1 of 13 

(i) who, directly or indirectly, by himself or in combination with his  

relatives exercises control over the intermediary or listed company or 
has a holding of not less than 15% in the paid up equity capital of the 
intermediary or the listed company;   

(ii) in respect of whom the intermediary or listed company directly or 

indirectly exercises control;   

(iii) 

whose director or partner is also a director or partner of the 

intermediary or listed company.  

Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause—   

(i)  ‘control’  means  control  as  defined in  clause  (c)  of  sub-regulation  (1) 
of  regulation  2  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997;   

(ii) ‘director’ does not include a nominee director;   

(iii) ‘person’ means a natural person, a company registered under the 
Companies Act, 1956, a body corporate, a partnership concern, a 
trust or society registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 
or any other legal entity.  

‘Board’ means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under 

(c) 
section 3 of the Act;   

‘Central Database’ means the electronic representation and storage of 

(d) 
information that may be created and maintained by a Designated Service Provider in 
respect of the persons who have been allotted unique identification numbers under 
these regulations;  

‘Central Listing Authority’ means the Central Listing Authority established under 

(e) 
regulation 3 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Central Listing Authority) 
Regulations, 2003;   

‘Designed employee’ in relation to a listed company or a company which intends 

(f) 
to get its securities listed means a designated employee within the meaning of the 
Explanation to clause 1.2 of Part A of Schedule I to the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 1992;   

‘Designated Service Provider’ means a person so designated by the Board to 

(g) 
create and maintain the Central Database on such terms and conditions as may be 
agreed to between him and the Board and to perform such other functions under these 
regulations as may be delegated to him by the Board;   

Page 2 of 13 

‘intermediary’ means any person who is registered with the Board under section 
(h) 
12 of the Act, but does not include 1[Foreign Institutional Investors and] Foreign Venture 
Capital Investors;   

‘investor’  means  an  investor  in  securities  and  includes  a  2 [Foreign  Portfolio 

(i) 
Investor] and a Foreign Venture Capital Investor;   

(j) 
‘listed company’ means a company whose securities are listed on a recognised 
stock exchange and includes a public company which intends to get its securities listed 
on a recognized stock exchange;   

(l)  ‘market participants’ means intermediaries, other entities, investors, listed companies 

and companies which intend to get their securities listed;   

(m)‘other entity’ means any recognised stock exchange, clearing corporation, approved 
intermediary under the Securities Lending Scheme, 1997, investor associations and 
includes any other person granted recognition by the Board, any person required to 
obtain any license or approval from any self-regulatory organization and any other 
person associated with the securities market in any manner as may be notified by 
the Board in the official gazette;   

(n) ‘promoter’ means—   

any person or persons who are directly or indirectly in control of 

(1) 
the company; or   

any person or persons named as ‘promoters’ in the offer 

(2) 
document or in the shareholding pattern disclosed by the Company 
under provisions of the Listing Agreement, whichever is later;  

and includes,   

(A) where such person is an individual,   

(i) 3[***]   

(ii) any company in which 26% or more of the equity share capital 

is held by him 4[***] or any firm or Hindu Undivided Family in 
which he 5[***] is a partner or member;   

 

1 Words "Foreign Institutional Investors and" omitted by the SEBI  (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 
2014, w.e.f. 7-1-2014. 
2 Substituted for "Foreign Institutional Investor" by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 7-1-2014. 
3 Words “his spouse, parents, brothers, sisters or children” omitted by the SEBI (Central Database of Market 
Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide  S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004.   
4 Words  “or  by  the  persons  mentioned  in  sub-clause  (i)”  omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Central  Database  of  Market 
Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-72004.   
5 Words “or any of the persons mentioned in sub-clause (i)” omitted by the SEBI (Central Database of Market 
Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide  S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004.   

Page 3 of 13 

(iii) 

any company in which a company specified in sub-

clause (ii) above, holds more than 50% of the equity share 
capital;   

 

1[(iv) any firm in which his holding is more than 50%;] 

(B) where such person is a body corporate,   

(i) a subsidiary or holding company of that body corporate;   

(ii) any company in which the said body corporate holds 26% or 

more of the equity share capital;   

(iii) 

any company which holds 26% or more of the equity 

share capital of the said body corporate;   

(iv) 

any company in which a group of persons holds 26% or 

more of the equity share capital and that group of persons 
also holds 26% or more of the equity share capital in such 
body corporate;   

(v)any other body corporate under the same management as the 
said body corporate within the meaning of sub-section (1B) of 
section 370 of the Companies Act, 1956;  

Explanation I.—A Financial Institution, Scheduled Commercial Bank, 2[Foreign portfolio 
Investor] or Mutual fund shall not be deemed to be a promoter merely by virtue of its 
shareholding.   

Explanation II.—A Financial Institution, Scheduled Commercial Bank or 3[Foreign 
portfolio Investor] shall be deemed to be a promoter of its subsidiary and of the mutual 
funds sponsored by it.   

(o) ‘recognised stock exchange’ means a stock exchange which has been granted 
recognition under section 4 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956;   

(p) ‘relative’ in relation to a natural person means his spouse, dependant children and 

dependent parents;   

(q) ‘related persons’ means the persons specified in clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of 

regulation 4 in respect of an intermediary or other entity and persons specified in 
clause (b) of regulation 5 in respect of a listed company or a company intending to 
get its securities listed;   

 

1 Substituted, by the SEBI (Central Database of Market Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   
S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004. Prior to its substitution, item (iv) read as under:- “(iv) any firm in which the 
aggregate of his holding and the holdings of the persons mentioned in sub-clause (i) is more”.   
2 Substituted for "Foreign Institutional Investor" by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 7-1-2014. 
3 Substituted for "Foreign Institutional Investor" by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 7-1-2014. 

Page 4 of 13 

(r)  ‘Schedule’ means a Schedule annexed to these regulations;   

(s) ‘securities’ means securities as defined in clause (h) of the Securities Contracts 

(Regulation) Act, 1956;   

(t)  ‘self-regulatory organization’ means an organization of intermediaries which is 

representing a particular segment of the securities market and formed as a company 
duly recognized with the Board and excludes a stock exchange;   

(u) ‘specified intermediaries’ mean such intermediaries or other entities as may be 

specified by the Board in the notification published in the official gazette pursuant to 
sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4;   

(v) ‘specified investors’ mean such investors as may be specified by the Board in the 
notification published in the official gazette pursuant to 1[sub-regulations (1), (2) or 
(3) of regulation 6];   

(w) ‘specified listed company’ means such companies as may be specified by the board 

in the notification published in the official gazette pursuant to regulation 5; and   

(x) unique identification number means the identification number generated in the 

Central Database for and allotted to each applicant under these regulations.  

(2)(a) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations shall have the 
meanings, if any, respectively assigned to them under the Act.   

Words and expressions used and not defined either in these regulations or the Act, shall 

(b) 
have the meanings, if any, respectively assigned to them in the Securities Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1956 or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof.   

(c) 
Words and expressions used and not defined either in these regulations, or in the Act or 
in the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 shall have the meanings, if any, respectively 
assigned to them under the Companies Act, 1956, or any statutory modification or re-enactment 
thereof.   

 

Chapter II   

REQUIREMENT OF OBTAINING UNIQUE IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS 

Unique Identification Numbers for market participants 

3. Every specified intermediary, other entity, specified listed company and specified investor 
shall make application for allotment of unique identification numbers for itself and for its related 
persons in accordance with these regulations.   

1 Substituted  for  “sub-regulation  (1)  of  regulation  6”  by  the  SEBI  (Central  Database  of  Market  Participants) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004.   

 

Page 5 of 13 

Specified intermediary and other entity to obtain unique identification numbers 

4. (1) On and from such date as may be notified by the Board in the official gazette, no specified 
intermediary or other entity shall act as such, unless—   

it has obtained a unique identification number from the Designated Service 

(a) 
Provider; and   

the following related persons have been allotted unique identification numbers 

(b) 
by the Designated Service Provider :   

(i)  its principal officer and personnel engaged in the operational 

activities of the intermediary for which a certificate of registration is 
required or taken from the Board;   

(ii)  its promoters, other than the Central or State Government or any 

statutory authority;   

(iii) its directors, in case it is a body corporate;   

(iv) its partners, in case it is a partnership firm;   

 

1[(v) in case of a stock broker, any approved user of the terminals 
allotted to him by the stock exchange, including terminals installed 
through Computer to Computer Link (CTCL) connectivity or any other 
means of connectivity approved by the stock exchange, which facilitates 
access to trading system of the exchange, except his sub-broker;] 

(vi) the sponsors, trustees, asset management companies and asset 
managers, where applicable;   

 

2[(vi-a)the directors and personnel engaged in the operational 

activities of asset management companies; and]  (vii) its proprietor, 

where applicable; 3[***]   

 

 

 

1 Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Central  Database  of  Market  Participants)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2004,  vide   
S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004. Prior to its substitution, sub-clause (v) read as under :-   
“(v) its associates and their directors;”   
2 Inserted by the SEBI (Central Database of Market Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. 
No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004.   
3   Word  “and”  omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Central  Database  of  Market  Participants)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004.    

Page 6 of 13 

(viii) 1[***].  

2[Explanation.—For the purposes of sub-clauses (i) and (vi-a), the words ‘personnel engaged 

in the operational activities’ shall mean the employees comprising the top three tiers of 
management excluding the Board of Directors engaged in the operational activities of the 
specified intermediary and such other employees as may be identified by the intermediary:] 

Provided that such person may continue to act as an intermediary or other entity if it has made 
applications for allotment of unique identification number under regulation 7 before the notified 
date and where such application has been rejected by the Board, an appeal has been filed and 
such appeal is pending for disposal.   

(2) Every certificate of registration issued to a specified intermediary by the Board after 
commencement of these regulations shall be subject to the condition that prior to 
commencement of its activities, the intermediary shall obtain a unique identification number for 
itself and for the persons mentioned in clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) in accordance with these 
regulations.   

Specified listed company to obtain unique identification number 

5. On and from such date as may be notified by the Board in the official gazette, no specified 
listed company or a company which intends to get its securities listed shall issue any securities 
which are proposed to be listed on a recognized stock exchange, unless—   

it has obtained a unique identification number from the Designated Service 

(a) 
Provider; and   

the following related persons have been allotted unique identification numbers 

(b) 
by the Designated Service Provider:   

(i)  its promoters, other than the Central or State Government or any 

statutory authority;   

(ii)  its directors and officers;   

(iii) its designated employees;   

(iv) its subsidiaries, its holding company and the holding company’s 

subsidiaries, if any;   

(v)  its associates and their directors; and   

(vi) relatives of the natural persons mentioned in sub-clauses (i) to (iii) 

and (v) above :  

 

1 Sub-clause (viii) omitted by the SEBI (Central Database of Market Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004. Prior to omission, it read as under: “(viii) relatives of the natural 
persons mentioned in sub-clauses (i) to (vii) above:” 
2 Inserted by the SEBI (Central Database of Market Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. 
No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004   

Page 7 of 13 

Provided that a specified listed company may, make an issue of securities which are proposed 
to be listed in any recognized stock exchange if it has made an application for allotment of 
unique identification number before the notified date, till the disposal of the application and 
where an appeal has been filed, till such appeal is disposed of.   

 

1[Power of the Board to extend time in respect of related persons 

5A.(1) Where the Board is satisfied that it is necessary, in order to prevent genuine hardship, 
that the time for obtaining unique identification numbers has to be extended beyond the date 
notified under regulations 4 or 5, as the case may be, in respect of any class of related persons 
of specified intermediaries or specified listed companies, it may by notification in the Official 
Gazette, specify a date within which such class of related persons ought to obtain unique 
identification numbers. 

(2) Where any person belonging to such class of related persons does not obtain unique 
identification number within the date notified under sub-regulation (1), the prohibitions contained 
in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 4 or regulation 5, as the case may be, shall apply to the 
concerned specified intermediary or specified listed company.] 

Specified investors to obtain unique identification numbers 

6. (1) On and from such date as may be notified by the Board in the Official Gazette, no 
specified investor, not being a body corporate, shall buy, sell or deal in any securities which are 
listed on any recognized stock exchange or in units of a mutual fund or a collective investment 
scheme or subscribe to securities which are proposed to be listed in any recognized stock 
exchange or units of a mutual fund or a collective investment scheme unless he has been 
allotted a unique identification number.   

(2) 
On and from such date as may be notified by the Board in the Official Gazette, no 
specified investor being a body corporate shall buy, sell or deal in any securities which are 
listed on any recognized stock exchange or in units of a mutual fund or a collective investment 
scheme or subscribe to securities which are proposed to be listed in any recognized stock 
exchange or units of a mutual fund or a collective investment scheme unless such specified 
investor, its promoters and directors have been allotted unique identification numbers.   

On and from such date as may be notified by the Board in the Official Gazette, no 

(3) 
specified investor, being a 2[Foreign portfolio Investor], a sub-account or a Foreign Venture 
Capital Investor shall buy, sell or deal in any securities which are listed on any recognized stock 
exchange or in units of a mutual fund or a collective investment scheme or subscribe to 
securities which are proposed to be listed in any recognized stock exchange or units of a 
mutual fund or a collective investment scheme unless it has been allotted a unique identification 
number.   

No intermediary shall, after such specified date, deal in or allot such securities on behalf 

(4) 
of or to a specified investor unless the investor has been allotted a unique identification number.   

 

1 Inserted by the SEBI (Central Database of Market Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. 
No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004   
2 Substituted for "Foreign Institutional Investor" by the SEBI (Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2014, 
w.e.f. 7-1-2014. 

Page 8 of 13 

Nothing in this regulation shall apply to any specified investor who has applied for 

(5) 
allotment of a unique identification number under regulation 9 before the notified date, till the 
disposal of his application or, where he has filed an appeal, till the disposal of the appeal, as the 
case may be.   

Application by specified intermediary or other entity 

7. Every specified intermediary or other entity shall make an application in accordance with 
1[sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation (2), as the case may be, of regulation 12] to the 
Designated Service Provider for allotment of unique identification numbers for itself and for its 
related persons.   

Application by specified listed company 

8. (1) Every specified listed company shall make an application to the Designated Service 
Provider in accordance with 2[sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation (2), as the case may be, of 
regulation 12] for allotment of unique identification numbers for itself and for its related persons.  

(2) Every public company specified in the notification issued under regulation 5 and which 
intends to get its securities listed in a recognized stock exchange shall make an application to 
the Designated Service Provider for allotment of unique identification numbers for itself and for 
the related persons mentioned in 3[clause (b) of regulation 5] simultaneously with the filing of 
the offer document with the Central Listing Authority.   

Application by specified investor 

9. Every specified investor shall make an application to the Designated Service Provider in 
accordance with 4[sub-regulation (1) or sub-regulation (2), as the case may be, of regulation 12] 
for allotment of a unique identification number.   

Person holding a unique identification number not required to obtain another unique 
identification number 

10. Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations, no person shall be obliged to apply 
for or be allotted another unique identification number, if he already holds a unique identification 
number allotted to him under these regulations in any other capacity :   

Provided that where any person holding a unique identification number subsequently becomes 
an intermediary or a listed company or a related person of any of them, he shall disclose such 
fact to the Designated Service Provider.   

 

1 Substituted for “sub-regulation (1) of regulation 12” by the SEBI (Central Database of Market Participants) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004.    
2 Substituted for “sub-regulation (2) of regulation 12” by the SEBI (Central Database of Market Participants) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004.   
3  Substituted  for  “clause  (b)  of  regulation  4”,  by  the  SEBI  (Central  Database  of  Market  Participants) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004.   
4 Substituted for “sub-regulation (3) of regulation 12”, by the SEBI (Central Database of Market Participants) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004.   

Page 9 of 13 

Maintenance of records 

11. The Designated Service Provider shall maintain such books, records and documents, in 
such manner and for such period as may be specified by the Board.   

 

Chapter III   

GRANT AND REVOCATION OF UNIQUE IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS 

Format of application 

12. (1) Every application made by a specified investor or a related person of a specified 
intermediary or specified listed company being a natural person, under regulation 7, 8 or 9, as 
the case may be, shall be in Form A specified in the Schedule and shall be accompanied with a 
fee as specified in the notifications issued under regulations 4, 5 or 6, as the case may be.   

(2) Every application made by a specified listed company, specified intermediary, a related 
person of any of the above or a specified investor, not being a natural person, under regulation 
7, 8 or 9, as the case may be, shall be in Form B specified in the Schedule and shall be 
accompanied with a fee as specified in the notifications issued under regulations 4, 5 or 6, as 
the case may be.   

Procedure on receipt of application 

13. (1) Upon receipt of an application for allotment of unique identification number under these 
regulations, the Designated Service Provider shall, if the application is not found defective, allot 
to the applicant a unique identification number within thirty days of receipt of the application.   

Where it is found that any such application is defective, the Designated Service Provider 

(2) 
may intimate the defect to the applicant and give it an opportunity to rectify the defect within a 
period of fifteen days from the date of such intimation or within such further period which the 
Board may allow on a request made in this behalf.   

Where any defect in the application is intimated under sub-section (2) and the defect is 

(3) 
not rectified by the applicant within the said period of fifteen days or, as the case may be, 
further period allowed under sub-regulation (2), then, notwithstanding anything contained in any 
other provision of this Chapter, Designated Service Provider shall refer the application to the 
Board, which may either direct the Designated Service Provider to allot the unique identification 
number or reject the application after giving an opportunity to the applicant to make 
representations.   

Criteria to determine specified intermediaries, specified listed companies and specified 
investors 

14. For the purposes of specifying the intermediaries, listed companies or investors under 
subregulation (1) of regulation 4 or regulation 5 or sub-regulation (1) of regulation 6, the Board 
may take into consideration the following factors :   

Page 10 of 13 

with regard to intermediaries or other entities-their kind and the nature of 

(a) 
functions performed by them, their networth and other similar factors;   

with regard to listed companies or companies which intend to get their securities 

(b) 
listed-their paid up capital, the number of their public shareholders, the volume of 
trading in their securities, the proposed issue size and other similar factors; and,   

with regard to investors - the quantum of investment made by them in the 

(c) 
securities of any listed company or their volume of trading in securities in a particular 
financial year.  

Duty not to make false statements and revocation of unique identification number 

15. (1) No person shall make a false statement or misrepresent any fact in any application made 
to the Designated Service Provider under these regulations.   

(2) Every application made to the Designated Service Provider under these regulations and 
every intimation made under regulation 17 shall be certified to be true and correct:   

(a) in case of an intermediary, by its whole time director, managing partner, managing 

trustee or sole proprietor, as the case may be, and by its compliance officer;   

(b) in case of a listed company, by its whole time director and its company secretary or 

auditor, and   

(c) in case of an investor, by him.  

Revocation of unique identification number 

16. (1) Where it is found that the unique identification number was obtained by a person through 
fraud or misrepresentation or was allotted to him under a mistake, the Board may, without 
prejudice to other action that it may take under any law for the time being in force and after 
giving him an opportunity of making representations, revoke the unique identification number 
allotted to him or to the related persons.   

(2) Upon revocation of the unique identification number of a person, the provisions of these 

regulations shall apply from the date of revocation, as if no unique identification number was 
allotted to him.   

(3) Every order passed by the Board under these regulations shall be in writing.   

 

1[Power of the Board to issue clarifications 

16A. In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, 
the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars or notes.] 

1 Inserted by the SEBI (Central Database of Market Participants) (Amendment) Regulations, 2004, vide   S.O. 
No. 854(E) dated 21-7-2004.   

 

Page 11 of 13 

 

 

Chapter IV   

CONTINUING OBLIGATIONS 

Duty to intimate changes 

17. (1) Every person who has been allotted a unique identification number under these 
regulations shall intimate the changes if any, in the particulars submitted by him in the 
application, to the Designated Service Provider, in such electronic or other manner as may be 
specified by the Board, within thirty days of occurrence of the change.   

(2) Every intermediary shall exercise due diligence so satisfy itself that its clients, being 
specified investors, have complied with sub-regulation (1).   

Duty to seek unique identification numbers for newly added related persons 

18. (1) Every specified intermediary and other entity shall within thirty days of any person 
becoming a related person, ensure that such person has been allotted or has applied for a 
unique identification number.   

(2) Every specified listed company shall within thirty days of any person becoming a related 
person, ensure that such person has been allotted or has applied for a unique identification 
number.   

 

Chapter V   

ACTION IN CASE OF VIOLATION 

Action for acting, dealing etc. without obtaining unique identification number 

19. Any person who issues any security or buys, sells or deals in any securities in contravention 
of these regulations shall be liable for—   

(a) action under sub-section (4) of section 11 of the Act;   

(b) delisting of securities;   

(c) being debarred from acting in any capacity in any security market related institution;  

(d) such other action as may be deemed appropriate by the Board in the facts and 

circumstances of the case :  

Provided that no such action shall be taken without following the procedure laid down under the 
relevant rules or regulations.   

Page 12 of 13 

 

Action for giving false statement 

20. Any person who makes any false statement or misrepresents any fact in any application or 
other document submitted to the Designated Service Provider shall, without prejudice to any 
action which may be taken under section 24 of the Act by the Board, be liable for action under 
section 15HB of the Act.   

Action for failure to intimate changes 

21. Any person who being required to do so, fails to intimate changes as required in 1[regulation 
17] shall be liable for action under clause (b) of section 15A of the Act.   

Action for failure to make application for newly added related persons 

22. Any intermediary or listed company who fails to ensure compliance with 2[regulation 18] 
shall be liable for action under section 15HB of the Act.   
 
 

3[CHAPTER VI 

POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 

Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 

23. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or any 
of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding twelve 
months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new  products, 
processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  in  live  environment  of  regulatory  sandbox  in  the 
securities markets. 
 
(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the 
applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to be 
complied with on a continuous basis. 
 
Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means a live testing 
environment where new products, processes, services, business models, etc. may be deployed 
on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time, for furthering innovation in 
the securities market, subject to such conditions as may be specified by the Board.] 

 

 

1  Substituted  for  "  regulation  15"  by  the  SEBI  (Central  Database  of  Market  Participants)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2004, w.e.f. 21-7-2004. 
2   Substituted  for  "regulation  16"  by  the  SEBI  (Central  Database  of  Market  Participants)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2004, w.e.f. 21-7-2004. 
3 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 

Page 13 of 13 

