THE GAZETTE OF INDIA  

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART – III – SECTION 4 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

NEW DELHI, JANUARY 21, 2013 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 21st January, 2013 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(INVESTMENT ADVISERS) REGULATIONS, 2013 

 

No. LAD-NRO/GN/2012-13/31/1778.-In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) 
of  Section  30  read  with  clause  (b)  of  sub-section  (2)  of  Section  11  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
hereby, makes the following regulations, namely, — 

 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title and commencement. 

1. 

(1)  These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013. 

(2)  These regulations shall come into force on the ninetieth day from the date of their 
publication in the Official Gazette. 

Definitions. 

2. 

(1) 
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms defined herein 
shall bear the meanings assigned to them below, and their cognate expressions shall be 
construed accordingly,–   

(a) 

 “Act”  means  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of 
1992); 

               1[(aa)  “assets under advice” shall mean the aggregate net asset value  of securities        

and  investment  products  for  which  the  investment  adviser  has  rendered 
investment  advice  irrespective  of  whether  the  implementation  services  are 

                                                 

1 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020.  

 

1 

provided by investment adviser or concluded by the client directly or through 
other service providers;] 

(b) 

 "Board" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India established under 
section 3 of the Act; 

(c)  “body corporate” shall have the meaning assigned to it in or 2[under sub-section 

(11) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)]; 

(d)  “certificate” means a certificate of registration granted under these regulations; 

(e) 

 “change in control” in relation to a company or a body corporate, means:  

(i) 

if  its  shares  are  listed  on  any  recognized  stock  exchange,  change  in 
control  within  the  meaning  of  clause  (e)  of  sub-regulation  (1)  of 
regulation 2 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;  

(ii) 

in  any  other  case,  change  in  the  controlling  interest  or  change  in  legal 
form.  

Explanation.─  For  the  purpose  of  sub-clause  (ii),  the  expression  “controlling 
interest” means an interest, whether direct or indirect, to the extent of more than 
fifty percent of voting rights or interest;  

(f) 

 “company” means a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 3[or 
Companies Act, 2013]; 

(g)  “consideration”  means  any  form  of  economic  benefit  including  non-cash 

benefit, received or receivable for providing investment advice; 

 4[(ga) “CPE” means continuing professional education in terms of clause (f) of sub 

regulation (1) of regulation 2 of the SEBI (Certification of Associated Persons 

in the Securities Markets) Regulations, 2007; 

(gb)   “family of client” shall include individual client, dependent spouse, dependent   

children and dependent parents; 

(gc)  “family of an individual investment adviser” shall include individual investment 

adviser, spouse, children and parents;] 

(h) 

“financial planning” shall include analysis of clients’ current financial situation, 
identification  of  their  financial  goals,  and  developing  and  recommending 
financial strategies to realise such goals; 

                                                 

2 Substituted for the words, symbols and numbers “under sub-section (7) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 1956 
(1 of 1956)” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
3 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
4 ibid. 
 

 

2 

(i) 

“firm” means a partnership firm registered  under  Indian Partnership Act, 1932 
(9 of 1932); 

(j) 

 “form” means any of the forms set out in the First Schedule;  

(k)  “inspecting authority” means any one or more persons appointed by the Board  

to exercise powers conferred under regulation 23; 

(l) 

“investment advice” means advice relating to investing in, purchasing, selling 
or  otherwise  dealing  in  securities  or  investment  products,  and    advice  on 
investment  portfolio  containing  securities  or  investment  products,  whether 
written, oral or through any other means of communication for the benefit of 
the client and shall include financial planning:  

Provided  that  investment  advice  given  through  newspaper,  magazines,  any 
electronic  or    broadcasting  or  telecommunications  medium,  which  is  widely 
available  to  the  public  shall  not  be  considered  as  investment  advice  for  the 
purpose of these regulations; 

(m)  “investment adviser” means any person, who for consideration, is engaged in 
the business of providing investment advice to clients or other persons or group 
of  persons  and  includes  any  person  who  holds  out  himself  as  an  investment 
adviser, by whatever name called; 

(n)  “limited liability partnership” means a partnership formed and registered under 

The Limited Liability Partnership Act, 2008(6 of  2009); 

(o)  “NBFC” means a Non-Banking Financial Company regulated by Reserve Bank 

of India; 

(p)  “NISM” means the  National  Institute of Securities Market  established by the 

Board; 

5[(pa)  “non-individual”  means  a  body  corporate  including  a  limited  liability 

partnership and a partnership firm;] 

(q)  “partner” means partner of the firm or a limited liability partnership who renders 

investment advice on behalf of the firm or limited liability partnership; 

6[(r)  “persons  associated  with  investment  advice”  shall  mean  any  member,  partner, 
officer,  director  or  employee  or  any  sales  staff  of  such  investment  adviser 
including any person occupying a similar status or performing a similar function 
irrespective  of  the  nature  of  association  with  the  investment  adviser  who  is 
engaged  in  providing  investment  advisory  services  to  the  clients  of  the 
investment adviser; 

                                                 

5 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
6 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, clause (r) read as under;                                                                                               
“(r) “representative” means an employee or an agent of an investment adviser who renders investment advice on 
behalf of that investment adviser.” 

 

3 

   Explanation. — 

All  client-facing  persons  such  as  sales  staff,  service  relationship  managers, 
client relationship managers, etc., by whatever name called shall be deemed to 
be persons associated with investment advice, but do not include persons who 
discharge  clerical  or  office  administrative  functions  where  there  is  no  client 
interface.] 

7[(s)  “principal  officer”  shall  mean  the  managing  director  or  designated  director  or 
managing partner or executive chairman of the board or equivalent management 
body who is responsible for the overall function of the business and operations 
of non-individual investment adviser.] 

(2)  The words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations but defined in 
the Act, the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the  8[Companies 
Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)], or any rules or regulations made thereunder shall have the same 
meanings  respectively  assigned  to  them  in  those  Acts,  rules  or  regulations  made 
thereunder or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereto, as the case may be. 

 

CHAPTER II 

REGISTRATION OF INVESTMENT ADVISERS 

Application for grant of certificate. 

3. 

(1)  On  and  from  the  commencement  of  these  regulations,  no  person  shall  act  as  an 
investment adviser or hold itself out as an investment adviser unless he has obtained a 
certificate of registration from the Board under these regulations: 

9[***] 

10[(1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-regulation (1), any application made 
by a person prior to coming into force of these regulations containing such particulars or 
as near thereto as mentioned in Form A of First Schedule shall be treated as an application 
made in pursuance of sub-regulation (1) and dealt with accordingly;] 

                                                 

7 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
8 Substituted for the words, symbols and numbers “Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)” by the SEBI (Investment 
Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 

9 Omitted by  the  SEBI (Investment  Advisers) (Amendment)  Regulations, 2020,  w.e.f.  30-09-2020. Prior to its 
omission, regulation 3(1) proviso read as under;  

“Provided  that  a  person  acting  as  an  investment  adviser  immediately  before  the  commencement  of  these 
regulations  may  continue  to  do  so  for  a  period of  six  months  from  such  commencement  or,  if  it  has  made  an 
application for a certificate under sub-regulation (2) within the said period of six months, till the disposal of such 
application.” 

10 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 

 

4 

(2)  An application for grant of certificate of registration shall be made in Form A as 
specified in the First Schedule to these regulations and shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable application fee to be paid in the manner specified in Second Schedule.  

11[(3)  On  and  from  the  date  of  commencement  of  these  regulations,  no  person,  while 
dealing in distribution of securities, shall use the nomenclature “Independent Financial 
Adviser or IFA or Wealth Adviser or any other similar name” unless registered with the 
Board as Investment Adviser.”] 

Exemption from registration. 

4. 

The following persons shall not be required to seek registration under regulation 3 subject 
to the fulfillment of the conditions stipulated therefor, — 

(a)  Any person who gives general comments in  good faith in regard to trends in the 
financial or securities market or the economic situation where such comments do 
not specify any particular securities or investment product; 

(b)  Any  insurance  agent  or  insurance  broker  who  offers  investment  advice  solely  in 
insurance products and is registered with Insurance Regulatory and Development 
Authority for such activity; 

(c)  Any pension advisor who offers investment advice solely on pension products and 
is registered with Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority for such 
activity; 

(d)  Any distributor of mutual funds, who is a member of a self regulatory organisation 
recognised by the Board or is registered with an association of asset management 
companies of mutual funds, providing any investment advice to its clients incidental 
to its primary activity; 

(e)  Any advocate, solicitor or law firm, who provides investment advice to their clients, 

incidental to their legal practise; 

(f)  Any member of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India, Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India, Actuarial 
Society of India or any other professional body as may be specified by the Board, 
who  provides  investment  advice  to  their  clients,  incidental  to  his  professional 
service; 

(g)  Any  stock  broker  or  sub-broker  registered  under  SEBI  (Stock  Broker  and  Sub-
Broker)  Regulations,  1992,  portfolio  manager  registered  under  SEBI  (Portfolio 
Managers) Regulations, 1993 or merchant banker registered under SEBI (Merchant 
Bankers)  Regulations,  1992,  who  provides  any  investment  advice  to  its  clients 
incidental to their primary activity: 

Provided that such intermediaries shall comply with the general obligation(s) and 
responsibilities as specified in Chapter III of these regulations: 

                                                 

11 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 

 

5 

Provided further that existing portfolio manager offering only investment advisory 
services  may  apply  for  registration  under  these  regulations  after  expiry  of  his 
current certificate of registration as a portfolio manager;  

(h)  Any  fund  manager,  by  whatever  name  called  of  a  mutual  fund,  alternative 

investment fund or any other intermediary or entity registered with the Board;  

(i)  Any  person  who  provides  investment  advice  exclusively  to  clients  based  out  of 

India:  

Provided  that  persons  providing  investment  advice  to  Non-Resident  Indian  or 
Person of Indian Origin shall fall within the purview of these regulations; 

(j)  Any  12[principal  officer,  persons  associated  with  advice]  and  partner  of  an 

investment adviser which is registered under these regulations:  

Provided that such 13[principal officer, persons associated with advice] and partner 
shall comply with regulation 7 of these regulations; 

(k)  Any other person as may be specified by the Board. 

Furnishing of further information, clarification and personal representation. 

5. 

(1)  The Board may require the applicant to furnish further information or clarification 
regarding  matters  relevant  to  investment  advisory  services  for  the  purpose  of 
consideration of the application filed under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3. 

(2)  The applicant or his authorised representative, if so required, shall appear before 
the Board for personal representation. 

Consideration of application and eligibility criteria.  

6. 

For the purpose of the grant of certificate the Board shall take into account all matters 
which are relevant to the grant of certificate of registration and in particular the following, 
namely, — 

(a)  whether the applicant is an individual or 14[a non-individual]; 

15[(b) in case the applicant is an individual, he and all persons associated with investment 

advice are appropriately qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;] 

                                                 

12 Substituted for the word “representative” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, 
w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
13 ibid 
14  Substituted  for  the  words  “a  body  corporate  or  a  firm”  by  the  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
15 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, clause (b) read as under; 
“whether in case the applicant is an individual, he is appropriately qualified and certified as specified in regulation 
7;”. 

 

6 

16[(c)  in  case  the  applicant  is  a  body  corporate,  the  principal  officer  and  all  persons 
associated with investment advice of the applicant are appropriately qualified and 
certified as specified in regulation 7;] 

17[(d) in case the applicant is a firm or a limited liability partnership, the principal officer 
and all persons associated with investment advice of the applicant are appropriately 
qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;]  

(e)  whether the applicant fulfills the 18[networth] requirements as specified in regulation 

8;  

19[(f)  whether  the  applicant,  its  partners,  principal  officer  and  persons  associated  with 
investment  advice,  if  any,  are  fit  and  proper  persons  based  on  the  criteria  as 
specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;] 

(g)  whether the applicant has the necessary infrastructure to effectively discharge the 

activities of an investment adviser; 

(h)  whether  the  applicant  or  any  person  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with  the 
applicant has in the past been refused certificate by the Board and if so, the grounds 
for such refusal;  

(i)  whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory 
authority against any person directly or indirectly connected to the applicant under 
the respective Act, rules or regulations made thereunder;  

(j) 

(k) 

In case a bank or an NBFC proposes to undertake investment advisory services, 
whether it has been permitted by Reserve Bank of India and the application is made 
through a subsidiary or separately identifiable department or division; 

In  case  any  20[non-individual],  other  than  a  Bank  or  NBFC,  which  proposes  to 
undertake investment advisory services, whether, the application is made through 
a separately identifiable department or division; 

                                                 

16 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, clause (c) read as under; 
“whether in case the applicant is a body corporate, all the representatives of the applicant who provide investment 
advice are appropriately qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;” 
17 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, clause (d) read as under;  
“whether in case the applicant is a firm or a limited liability partnership, all partners who are engaged in giving 
investment advice are qualified and certified as specified in regulation 7;” 
18 Substituted for the words “capital adequacy” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
19 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, clause (f) read as under; 
“whether the applicant, its representatives and partners, if any, are fit and proper persons based on the criteria as 
specified in Schedule II of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008;” 
20  Substituted  for  the  words  “body  corporate”  by  the  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 

 

7 

(l) 

In  case  an  entity  incorporated  outside  India  undertakes  to  provide  investment 
advisory  services  under  these  regulations,  whether,  it  has  set  up  a  subsidiary  in 
India and whether such subsidiary has made the application for registration; 

(m)  In  case  a  foreign  citizen  proposes  to  undertake  investment  advisory  services, 
whether  the  applicant  has  set  up  an  office  in  India  and  proposes  to  undertake 
investment advisory services through such office. 

21[Qualification and certification requirement. 

7. 

(1) An individual investment adviser or a principal officer of a non-individual investment 
adviser  registered  as  an  investment  adviser  under  these  regulations,  shall  have  the 
following minimum qualification, at all times - 

(a)  A  professional  qualification  or  post-graduate  degree  or  post  graduate  diploma 
(minimum two years in duration) in finance, accountancy, business management, 
commerce, economics, capital market, banking, insurance or actuarial science from 
a university or an institution recognized by the Central Government or any State 
Government  or  a  recognised  foreign  university  or  institution  or  association  or  a 
CFA Charter from the CFA Institute; 

(b)  An  experience  of  at  least  five  years  in  activities  relating  to  advice  in  financial 

products or securities or fund or asset or portfolio management; 

                                                 

21 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, regulation 7 read as under; 
“Qualification and certification requirement. 

An  individual  registered  as  an  investment  adviser  under  these  regulations  and  partners  and 
7(1) 
representatives of an investment adviser registered under these regulations offering investment advice shall have 
the following minimum qualifications, at all times: 

(a) 

A  professional  qualification  or  post-graduate  degree  or  post  graduate  diploma  in  finance, 
accountancy,  business  management,  commerce,  economics,  capital  market,  banking,  insurance  or 
actuarial science from a university or an institution recognized by the central government or any state 
government or a recognised foreign university or institution or association; or  

(b)  A graduate in any discipline with an experience of at least five years in activities relating to advice in 

financial products or securities or fund or asset or portfolio management.  

(2) 
An  individual  registered  as  an  investment  adviser  and  partners  and  representatives  of  investment 
advisers registered under these regulations offering investment advice shall have, at all times, a certification on 
financial planning or fund or asset or portfolio management or investment advisory services:  

(a) 

(b) 

from NISM; or 

from any other organization or institution including Financial Planning Standards Board India or any 
recognized stock exchange in India provided that such certification is accredited by NISM.: 

Provided that the existing investment advisers seeking registration under these regulations shall ensure that their 
partners and representatives obtain such certification within two years from the date of commencement of these 
regulations:  

Provided further that fresh certification must be obtained before expiry of the validity of the existing certification 
to ensure continuity in compliance with certification requirements.” 

 

8 

(c)  Persons  associated  with  investment  advice  shall  meet  the  following  minimum 

qualifications, at all times - 

(i) a professional qualification as provided in clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) of 
regulation 7; and 

(ii) an experience of at least two years in activities relating to advice in financial 
products or securities or fund or asset or portfolio management: 

Provided that investment advisers registered under these regulations as on the date 
of commencement of these regulations shall ensure that the individual investment 
adviser or principal officer of a non-individual investment adviser registered under 
these regulations and persons associated with investment advice comply with such 
qualification and experience requirements within three years: 

Provided further that the requirements at clauses (a) and (b) shall not apply to such 
existing individual investment advisers as may be specified by the Board. 

(2) An individual investment adviser or principal officer of a non-individual investment 
adviser, registered under these regulations and persons associated with investment advice 
shall have, at all times a certification on financial planning or fund or asset or portfolio 
management or investment advisory services - 

(a)from NISM; or 

(b)from any other organization or institution including Financial Planning Standards 
Board of India or any recognized stock exchange in India provided such certification 
is accredited by NISM: 

Provided  that  fresh  certification  must  be  obtained  before  expiry  of  the  validity  of  the 
existing certification to ensure continuity in compliance with certification requirements: 

Provided  further  that  fresh  certification  before  expiry  of  the  validity  of  the  existing 
certification shall not be obtained through a CPE program.] 

22[Networth. 

                                                 

22 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, regulation 8 read as under;  
“Capital adequacy. 
(1) Investment advisers which are body corporate shall have a net worth of not less than twenty five lakh rupees. 
Explanation.─ For the purposes of this regulation, "networth" means the aggregate value of paid up share capital 
plus free reserves (excluding reserves created out of revaluation) reduced by the aggregate value of accumulated 
losses,  deferred  expenditure  not  written  off,  including  miscellaneous  expenses  not  written  off,  and  capital 
adequacy  requirement  for  other  services  offered  by  the  advisers  in  accordance  with  the  applicable  rules  and 
regulations. 
(2) Investment advisers who are individuals or partnership firms shall have net tangible assets of value not less 
than rupees one lakh:  
Provided that existing investment advisers shall comply with the capital adequacy requirement within one year 
from the date of commencement of these regulations.” 

 

9 

8. 

(1) Investment advisers who are non-individuals shall have a net worth of not less than 
fifty lakh rupees. 

Explanation. — For the purposes of this regulation, "networth" means the aggregate value 
of paid up share capital plus free reserves (excluding reserves created out of revaluation) 
reduced by the aggregate value of accumulated losses, deferred expenditure not written 
off, including miscellaneous expenses not written off, and networth requirement for other 
services offered by the advisers in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations. 

(2) Investment advisers who are individuals shall have net tangible assets of value not 
less than five lakh rupees: 

Provided that existing investment advisers shall comply with the networth requirement 
within three years from the date of commencement of the SEBI (Investment Advisers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2020.] 

Grant of certificate of registration. 

9. 

The Board on being satisfied that the applicant complies with the requirements specified 
in regulation 6 shall send intimation to the applicant and on receipt of the payment of 
registration 23[***] fees as specified in Second Schedule, grant certificate of registration 
in Form B under First Schedule, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may 
deem fit and appropriate. 

Period of validity of certificate. 

10.  The  certificate  of  registration  granted  under  regulation  9  shall  be  valid  24[till  it  is 

suspended or cancelled by the Board.]  

Renewal of certificate. 

25[The investment adviser which has already been granted certificate of registration by 
the Board, prior to  the  commencement of the Securities and  Exchange Board of  India 
(Change  in  Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2016 shall be deemed to have been granted a certificate of registration, in 
terms of sub-regulation (1).] 

11. 

 

                                                 

23 The words “/renewal” was omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of 
Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
24 Substituted for the words “for a period of five years from the date of its issue.” by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 
w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
25 Substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain 
Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  substitution  regulation  11  read  as 
under: 
“11. (1)  Three months before the expiry of the period of validity of the certificate, the investment adviser may, if 
he so desires, make an application in Form A for grant of renewal of certificate of registration.  
(2)The application for renewal under sub-regulation (1) shall be dealt with in the same manner as if it were an 
application made under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 3 for grant of certificate.” 

 

10 

Procedure where registration is refused. 

12. 

(1)  After  considering  an  application  made  under  regulation  3,  if the  Board  is  of  the 
opinion  that  a  certificate  should  not  be  granted  to  the  applicant,  it  may  reject  the 
application after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 

(2)  The decision of the Board to reject the application shall be communicated to the 
applicant within thirty days of such decision. 

(3)  Where an application for a certificate is rejected by the Board, the applicant shall 
forthwith cease to act as an investment adviser: 

Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall affect the liability of the applicant 
towards its existing clients under law. 

Conditions of certificate. 

13.  The certificate  granted under regulation  9 shall,  inter alia, be subject  to  the following 

conditions:-   

(a) 

(b) 

the investment adviser shall abide by the provisions of the Act and these regulations;  

the  investment  adviser  shall  forthwith  inform  the  Board  in  writing,  if  any 
information or particulars previously submitted to the Board are found to be false 
or  misleading  in  any  material  particular  or  if  there  is  any  material  change  in  the 
information already submitted; 

(c) 

the investment adviser, not being an individual, shall include the words ‘investment 
adviser’ in its name: 

Provided that if the investment advisory service is being provided by a separately 
identifiable department or division or a subsidiary, then such separately identifiable 
department or division or subsidiary shall include the words ‘investment adviser’ in 
its name; 

(d) 

individuals registered as investment advisers shall use the term ‘investment adviser’ 
in all their correspondences with their clients26[;] 

27[(e) individuals registered as investment advisers whose number of clients exceed one 
hundred and fifty in total, shall apply for registration as non-individual investment adviser 
within such time as may be specified by the Board.] 

Recognition of body or body corporate for regulation of investment advisers.   

14. 

(1)  The Board may recognize any body or body corporate for the purpose of regulating 
investment advisers. 

                                                 

26 Substituted for the symbol “.” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-
09-2020. 
27 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 

 

11 

(2)  The Board may, at the time of recognition of such body or body corporate, delegate 
administration and supervision of investment advisers to such body or body corporate on 
such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board.  

(3)  The Board may specify that no person shall act as an investment adviser unless he 
is  a  member  of  a  recognized  body  or  body  corporate  and  in  such  event,  provisions  of 
these  regulations  and  byelaws  or  articles  of  such  body  or  body  corporate  shall  apply 
mutatis mutandis to such investment advisers. 

 

CHAPTER III 

GENERAL OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 

General responsibility. 

15. 

(1)  An investment adviser shall act in a fiduciary capacity towards its clients and shall 
disclose all conflicts of interests as and when they arise. 

(2) 
  An investment adviser shall not receive any consideration by way of remuneration 
or compensation or in any other form from any person other than the client being advised, 
in respect of the underlying products or securities for which advice is provided. 

(3)  An  investment  adviser  shall  maintain  an  arms-length  relationship  between  its 
activities as an investment adviser and other activities.  

(4)  An  investment  adviser  which  is  also  engaged  in  activities  other  than  investment 
advisory services shall ensure that its investment advisory services are clearly segregated 
from all its other activities, in the manner as prescribed hereunder. 

(5)  An  investment  adviser  shall  ensure  that  in  case  of  any  conflict  of  interest  of  the 
investment  advisory  activities  with  other  activities,  such  conflict  of  interest  shall  be 
disclosed to the client.  

(6)  An  investment  adviser  shall  not  divulge  any  confidential  information  about  its 
client, which has come to its knowledge, without taking prior permission of its clients, 
except where such disclosures are required to be made in compliance with any law for 
the time being in force. 

(7)  An investment advisor shall not enter into transactions on its own account which is 
contrary to its advice given to clients for a period of fifteen days from the day of such 
advice.  

Provided that during the period of such fifteen days, if the investment adviser is of the 
opinion that the situation has changed, then it may enter into such a transaction on its own 
account after giving such revised assessment to the client at least 24 hours in advance of 
entering into such transaction.  

(8)  An investment advisor shall follow Know Your Client procedure as specified by 
the Board from time to time. 

 

12 

(9)  An  investment  adviser  shall  abide  by  Code  of  Conduct  as  specified  in  Third 
Schedule. 

(10) 
An  investment  adviser  shall  not  act  on  its  own  account,  knowingly  to  sell 
securities or investment products to or purchase securities or investment product from a 
client. 

(11)  In case of change in control of the investment adviser, prior approval from the Board 
shall be taken.  

(12)  Investment advisers shall furnish to the Board information and reports as may be 
specified by the Board from time to time. 

28[(13) It shall be the responsibility of the investment adviser to ensure compliance with 
the  certification  and  qualification  requirements  as  specified  under  Regulation  7  at  all 
times.] 

29[Fees. 

15A. Investment Adviser shall be entitled to charge fees for providing investment advice from 

a client in the manner as specified by the Board.] 

Risk profiling.  

16. 

Investment adviser shall ensure that,- 

(a)  it obtains from the client, such information as is necessary for the purpose of giving 

investment advice, including the following:- 

(i)  age; 

(ii)  investment objectives including time for which they wish to stay invested, the 

purposes of the investment ; 

(iii)  income details; 

(iv)  existing investments/ assets; 

(v)  risk appetite/ tolerance; 

(vi)  liability/borrowing details. 

(b)  it has a process for assessing the risk a client is willing and able to take, including:  

(i)  assessing a client’s capacity for absorbing loss;  

                                                 

28 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, sub-regulation (13) read as under; 
“(13)  It shall be the responsibility of the Investment  Adviser to ensure that its representatives and partners, as 
applicable, comply with the certification and qualification requirements under Regulation 7 at all times.” 
29 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 

 

13 

(ii)  identifying  whether  client  is  unwilling  or  unable  to  accept  the  risk  of  loss  of 

capital;  

(iii)  appropriately  interpreting  client  responses  to  questions  and  not  attributing 

inappropriate weight to certain answers. 

(c)  where tools are used for risk profiling, it should be ensured that the tools are fit for 

the purpose and any limitations are identified and mitigated;  

(d)  any questions or description in any questionnaires used to establish the risk a client 
is willing and able to take are fair, clear and not misleading, and should ensure that: 

(i)  questionnaire is  not  vague or use double negatives or in  a complex language 

that the client may not understand;  

(ii)  questionnaire is not structured in a way that it contains leading questions. 

(e)  risk profile of the client is communicated to the client after risk assessment is done; 

(f) 

information provided by clients and their risk assessment is updated periodically. 

Suitability. 

17. 

Investment adviser shall ensure that,-  

(a)  All  investments  on which investment  advice is  provided is  appropriate to  the risk 

profile of the client; 

(b)  It has a documented process for selecting investments based on client’s investment 

objectives and financial situation; 

(c)  It understands the nature and risks of products or assets selected for clients; 

(d)  It has a reasonable basis for believing that a recommendation or transaction entered 

into:  

(i)  meets the client’s investment objectives;  

(ii) 

is  such  that  the  client  is  able  to  bear  any  related  investment  risks  consistent 
with its investment objectives and risk tolerance; 

(iii)  is  such  that  the  client  has  the  necessary  experience  and  knowledge  to 

understand the risks involved in the transaction.  

(e)  Whenever a recommendation is given to a client to purchase of a particular complex 
financial  product,  such  recommendation  or  advice  is  based  upon  a  reasonable 
assessment that the structure and risk reward profile of financial product is consistent 
with clients experience, knowledge, investment objectives, risk appetite and capacity 
for absorbing loss. 

Disclosures to clients. 

18. 

(1)  An  investment  adviser  shall  disclose  to  a  prospective  client,  all  material 
information  about  itself  including  its  business,  disciplinary  history,  the  terms  and 
conditions on which it offers advisory services, affiliations with other intermediaries and 

 

14 

such other information as is necessary to take an informed decision on whether or not to 
avail its services. 

30[***] 

(4)  An investment adviser shall disclose to the client its holding or position, if any, in 
the financial products or securities which are subject matter of advice.  

(5)  An investment adviser shall disclose to the client any actual or potential conflicts 
of  interest  arising  from  any  connection  to  or  association  with  any  issuer  of  products/ 
securities,  including  any  material  information  or  facts  that  might  compromise  its 
objectivity or independence in the carrying on of investment advisory services. 

(6)  An investment adviser shall, while making an investment advice, make adequate 
disclosure to the client of all material facts relating to the key features of the products or 
securities, particularly, performance track record. 

(7)   An investment adviser shall draw the client’s attention to the warnings, disclaimers 
in  documents,  advertising  materials  relating  to  an  investment  product  which  it  is 
recommending to the client.  

Maintenance of records. 

19. 

(1)   An investment adviser shall maintain the following records,- 

(a)  Know Your Client records of the client; 

(b)  Risk profiling and risk assessment of the client; 

(c)  Suitability assessment of the advice being provided; 

31[(d) Copies of agreements with clients, incorporating the terms and conditions as 
may be specified by the Board;] 

(e)  Investment advice provided, whether written or oral; 

(f)  Rationale for arriving at investment advice, duly signed and dated; 

                                                 

30 Omitted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
omission, sub-regulation (2) and (3) read as under;  
“(2) An investment adviser shall disclose to its client, any consideration by way of remuneration or compensation 
or  in  any  other  form  whatsoever,  received  or  receivable  by  it  or  any  of  its  associates  or  subsidiaries  for  any 
distribution  or  execution  services  in  respect  of  the  products  or  securities  for  which  the  investment  advice  is 
provided to the client.  
(3) An investment adviser shall, before recommending the services of a stock broker or other intermediary to a 
client, disclose any consideration by way of remuneration or compensation or in any other form whatsoever, if 
any,  received  or  receivable  by  the  investment  adviser,  if  the  client  desires  to  avail  the  services  of  such 
intermediary.” 
31 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, clause (d) read as under;  
“(d)Copies of agreements with clients, if any;” 

 

15 

(g)  A register or record containing list of the clients, the date of advice, nature of 
the advice, the products/securities in which advice was rendered and fee, if any 
charged for such advice.  

(2) All records shall be maintained either in physical or electronic form and preserved for 
a minimum period of five years: 

Provided  that  where  records  are  required  to  be  duly  signed  and  are  maintained  in 
electronic form, such records shall be digitally signed. 

(3) An investment adviser shall conduct yearly audit in respect of compliance with these 
regulations from a member of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India or Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India 32[and submit a report of the same as may be specified by 
the Board]. 

Appointment of compliance officer. 

20. 

 An investment adviser which is a body corporate or a partnership firm shall appoint a 
compliance  officer  who  shall  be  responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  by  the 
investment adviser in respect of the requirements of the Act, regulations, notifications, 
guidelines, instructions issued by the Board.  

Redressal of client grievances. 

21. 

(1)  An investment adviser shall redress client grievances promptly. 

(2)  An  investment  adviser  shall  have  adequate  procedure  for  expeditious  grievance 
redressal. 

(3)  Client grievances pertaining to financial products in which investments have been 
made based on investment advice, shall fall within the purview of the regulator of such 
financial product. 

(4)  Any dispute between the investment adviser and his client may be resolved through 
arbitration  or  through  Ombudsman  authorized  or  appointed  for  the  purpose  by  any 
regulatory authority, as applicable. 

33[Client level segregation of advisory and distribution activities. 

                                                 

32 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
33 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, regulation 22 read as under; 
“Segregation of execution services. 
22 Investment advisers which are banks, NBFCs and body corporate providing distribution  or execution services 
to their clients shall keep their investment advisory services segregated from such activities: 
Provided that such distribution or execution services can only be offered subject to the following: 
(a)  The client shall  not be under  any obligation to avail the distribution or execution  services offered by the 

investment adviser.  

(b)  The investment adviser shall maintain arms length relationship between its activities as investment adviser 

and distribution or execution services. 

 

16 

22. 

(1) An individual investment adviser shall not provide distribution services.  

(2)  The family of an individual investment adviser shall not provide distribution services 
to the client advised by the individual investment adviser and no individual investment 
adviser shall provide advice to a client who is receiving distribution services from other 
family members. 

(3) A non-individual investment adviser shall have client level segregation at group level 
for investment advisory and distribution services. 

Explanation. — 

 (i)   The same client cannot be offered both advisory and distribution services within the 
group of the non-individual entity. 

 (ii)  A  client  can  either  be  an  advisory  client  where  no  distributor  consideration  is 
received  at  the  group  level  or  distribution  services  client  where  no  advisory  fee  is 
collected from the client at the group level. 

(iii)  ‘Group’  for  this  purpose  shall  mean  an  entity  which  is  a  holding,  subsidiary, 
associate, subsidiary of a holding company to which it is also a subsidiary or an investing 
company or the venturer of the company as per the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 
for non-individual investment adviser which is a company under the said Act and in any 
other  case,  an  entity  which  has  a  controlling  interest  or  is  subject  to  the  controlling 
interest of a non-individual investment adviser. 

(4)  Non-individual  investment  adviser  shall  maintain  an  arm’s  length  relationship 
between its activities as investment adviser and distributor by providing advisory services 
through a separately identifiable department or division. 

(5) Compliance and monitoring process for client segregation at group or family level 
shall be in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Board.] 

34[Implementation of advice or execution. 

22A. (1)  Investment  adviser may provide implementation services to  the advisory clients  in 

securities market:  

Provided  that  investment  advisers  shall  ensure  that  no  consideration  including  any 
commission  or  referral  fees,  whether  embedded  or  indirect  or  otherwise,  by  whatever 
name called is received; directly or indirectly, at investment adviser’s group or family 
level for the said service, as the case maybe. 

(2)  Investment adviser shall provide implementation services to its advisory clients only 
through direct schemes/products in the securities market. 

(3)  Investment  adviser  or  group  or  family  of  investment  adviser  shall  not  charge  any 

                                                 

(c)  All fees and charges paid to distribution or execution service providers by the client shall be paid directly to 

the service providers and not through the investment adviser.” 

34 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 

 

17 

implementation fees from the client.  

(4) The client shall not be under any obligation to avail implementation services offered 
by the investment adviser.] 

 

CHAPTER IV 

INSPECTION 

Board’s right to inspect.  

23.  The Board may suo motu or upon receipt of information or complaint appoint one or more 
persons as inspecting authority to undertake inspection of the books of accounts, records 
and documents relating to investment advisers for any of the following reasons, namely: 
-   

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

to ensure that the books of account, records and documents are being maintained by 
the investment adviser in the manner specified in these regulations;   

to inspect into complaints received from clients or any other person, on any matter 
having a bearing on the activities of the investment adviser;   

to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act  and  these  regulations  are  being 
complied with by the investment adviser;   

to inspect into the affairs of a investment adviser, in the interest of the securities 
market or in the interest of investors. 

Notice before inspection.  

24. 

(1)  Before  ordering  an  inspection  under  regulation  23,  the  Board  shall  give  not  less 
than ten days notice to the investment adviser.   

(2)    Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1),  where  the  Board  is 
satisfied that in the interest of the investors no such notice should be given, it may by an 
order in writing direct that the inspection of the affairs of the investment adviser be taken 
up without such notice.   

(3)    During  the  course  of  an  inspection,  the  investment  adviser  against  whom  the 
inspection is being carried out shall be bound to discharge its obligations as provided in 
regulation 25.   

Obligation of investment adviser on inspection.  

25. 

(1) 
It shall be the duty of every investment adviser in respect of whom an inspection 
has  been  ordered  under  the  regulation  23  and  any  other  associate  person  who  is  in 
possession of relevant information pertaining to conduct and affairs of such investment 
adviser,  including  35[partners,  directors,  principal  officer  and  persons  associated  with 
investment advice], if any, to produce to the inspecting authority such books, accounts 

                                                 

35  Substituted  for  the  words  “representative  of  investment  adviser”  by  the  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 

 

18 

and other documents in his custody or control and furnish him with such statements and 
information as the inspecting authority may require for the purposes of inspection.   

(2) 
It shall be the duty of every investment adviser and any other associate person who 
is  in  possession  of  relevant  information  pertaining  to  conduct  and  affairs  of  the 
investment adviser to give to the inspecting authority all such assistance and shall extend 
all  such  co-operation  as  may  be  required  in  connection  with  the  inspection  and  shall 
furnish  such  information  as  sought  by  the  inspecting  authority  in  connection  with  the 
inspection.   

(3)  The  inspecting  authority  shall,  for  the  purposes  of  inspection,  have  power  to 
examine  on  oath  and  record  the  statement  of  any  employees,  directors,  partners  36[, 
principal officer and persons  associated with  investment  advice]  or person responsible 
for or connected with the activities of investment adviser or any other associate person 
having relevant information pertaining to such investment adviser. 

(4)  The inspecting authority shall, for the purposes of inspection, have power to obtain 
authenticated  copies  of  documents,  books,  accounts  of  investment  adviser,  from  any 
person having control or custody of such documents, books or accounts. 

Submission of report to the Board. 

26.  The inspecting authority shall, as soon as possible, on completion of the inspection submit 

an inspection report to the Board: 

Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, the inspecting authority may submit an 
interim report.   

Action on the inspection report. 

27.  The Board may after consideration of the inspection report and after giving reasonable 
opportunity of hearing to the investment advisers or its authorized representatives, issue 
such  directions  as  it  deems  fit  in  the  interest  of  securities  market  or  the  investors 
including,-  

(a)  requiring an investment adviser 37[, partners, directors, principal officer and persons 
associated with investment advice] not to provide investment advice for a particular 
period;  

(b)  requiring the investment adviser to refund any money collected as fees, charges or 
commissions or otherwise to the concerned clients along with the requisite interest. 

(c)  prohibiting  the  investment  adviser  38[,  partners,  directors,  principal  officer  and 
persons associated with investment advice] from operating in the capital market or 
accessing the capital market for a specified period.  

 

                                                 

36 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
37 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
38 ibid. 

 

19 

CHAPTER V 

PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 

Liability for action in case of default. 

28.  An investment adviser who - 

(a)  contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or any regulations or circulars issued 

thereunder; 

(b)  fails to furnish any information relating to its activity as an investment adviser as 

required by the Board; 

(c)  furnishes to the Board information which is false or misleading in any material 

particular; 

(d)  does not submit periodic returns or reports as required by the Board; 

(e)  does not co-operate in any enquiry, inspection or investigation conducted by the 

Board; 

(f)  fails to resolve the complaints of investors or fails to give a satisfactory reply to 

the Board in this behalf, 

shall be dealt with in the manner provided under the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008. 

 

39[CHAPTER V-A 

POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 

Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 

28A. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation of all or 

any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified but not exceeding 

twelve  months,  for  furthering  innovation  in  technological  aspects  relating  to  testing  new 

products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live environment of regulatory sandbox 

in the securities markets. 

(2)  Any  exemption  granted  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be  subject  to  the 

applicant satisfying such conditions as may be specified by the Board including conditions to 

be complied with on a continuous basis. 

                                                 

39 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 

 

20 

Explanation.  —  For  the  purposes  of  these  regulations,  "regulatory  sandbox"  means  a  live 

testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business  models,  etc.  may  be 

deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified period of time,  for furthering 

innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the 

Board.] 

CHAPTER VI 

MISCELLANEOUS 

Power of the Board to issue clarifications etc. 

29. 

In order to remove any difficulties in the application or interpretation of these regulations, 
the Board may issue clarifications and guidelines in the form of circulars. 

Power of the Board over body or body corporate recognized under regulation 14. 

30.  The Board reserves the right to alter, modify and overrule any decision, action taken or 

penalties imposed by the body or body corporate recognized under regulation 14. 

 

21 

FIRST SCHEDULE 

FORM A 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 

40[See Regulation 3] 

41[Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration] 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India  

SEBI Bhavan, C4-A, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East),  Mumbai 400051 - 

India 

 

INSTRUCTIONS 

1.  This  form  is  meant  for  use  by  the  applicant  for  grant  of  certificate  of  registration  as  an 

investment adviser. 

2.  The  applicant  should  complete  this  form,  and  submit  it,  along  with  all  supporting 

documents to the Board at its head office at Mumbai. 

3.  This application form should be filled in accordance with these regulations. 

4.  The application shall be considered by the Board provided it is complete in all respects. 

5.  All answers must be legible and all the pages must be numbered with signature/ stamp on 

each page of the form. 

6.  Information  which  needs  to  be  supplied  in  more detail  may  be  given  on  separate  sheets 

which should be attached to the application form and appropriately numbered. 

7.  The application must be signed. 

8.  The  application  must  be  accompanied  by  an  application  fee  as  specified  in  the  Second 

Schedule to these regulations. 
 

1.  GENERAL INFORMATION 

(a)  Name,  address  of  the  registered  office,  address  for  correspondence  and  principal 
place  of  business,  telephone  number(s),  fax  number(s),  e-mail  address  of  the 
applicant.  

                                                 

40 Substituted for the words “See Regulations 3 and 11” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change 
In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
41 Substituted for the words “Application for Grant of Certificate of Registration/Renewal  as investment adviser” 
by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 

 

22 

42[(b)***]. 

(c)  Name, direct line number, mobile number and e-mail of the contact person(s) 43[and 

principal officer]. 

(d) Legal  structure  of  applicant  -  Whether  the  applicant  is  an  individual  44[  or  non-

individual].  

(e)  Whether the applicant is a bank /NBFC. 

(f)  Date  and  place  of  incorporation/  establishment,  if  any.  If  the  applicant  is 

incorporated outside India, details of such incorporation. 

(g) Whether the applicant is engaged in investment advisory services prior to making 

application under these regulations.  

(h) Whether  the  applicant  is  registered  with  SEBI,  RBI,  IRDA  or  PFRDA  in  any 

capacity. If so, details of such registration. 

(i)  Write-up on the activities of the applicant.  
45[***] 

2.  DETAILS OF APPLICANT (Provide details of only the section applicable to you) 

I. In case applicant is an individual: 

46[1.  Whether  the  applicant  and  persons  associated  with  investment  advice 
comply with qualification and certification requirements under regulation 7 
and applicant has submitted a declaration with respect to the same. 

                                                 

42 Omitted by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change in Conditions of Registration of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission sub-para(b) read as under: 
“(b) Whether application is for registration/ renewal. Provide registration number if the application is for renewal 
of certificate.” 
43 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
44Substituted for the words and symbol “, body corporate (including company), partnership firm or limited liability 
partnership” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
45 Omitted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
omission, the following words of clause (i) read as under; 
 (For renewal application, provide details of existing investment advisory services including number and type of 
clients, assets under advice, revenue, profitability, products/ securities on which investment advice was provided, 
etc.)  
46 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, clause 1. read as under;  
“Whether the applicant has: 
a.  A  professional  qualification  or  post-graduate  degree  or  post  graduate  diploma  in  finance,  accountancy, 
business management, commerce, economics, capital market, banking, insurance or actuarial science from 
a university or an institution recognized by the Central Government or any State Government or a recognised 
foreign university or institution or association; or  

b.  A  graduate  in  any  discipline  with  an  experience  of  at  least  five  years  in  activities  relating  to  advice  in 

financial products or securities or fund or asset or portfolio management. 

(Provide self certified copies of supporting documents).” 

 

23 

(Provide self-certified copies of supporting documents).] 

2. Copy of certification obtained in accordance with regulation 7(2). 

47[***] 
48[3.  Number  of  persons  associated  with  investment  advice,  if  any,  who  shall 
render investment advice under these regulations on behalf of the applicant. 
Provide  documents  as  mentioned  in  points  1  to  2  above  for  such  persons 
associated with investment advice.] 

4.  Enclose  identity  proof  and  address  proof  of  the  applicant  49[and  persons 

associated with investment advice]. 

5.  Details  of  ownership/directorship  of  the  applicant  in  any  companies  or 

partnership interest in any firm or limited liability partnership. 

6.  Copy of Income Tax Return/ Copy of Form 16 for the last 3 years. 
7.  Copy of assets and liabilities statement and certification of net tangible assets 
certified by a chartered accountant (not more than six months old at the time 
of  filing  of  application).  Please  note  that  membership  number  of  the 
Chartered accountant must be included in the certificate,  
 

II. In case applicant is a company: 

1.  Shareholding pattern and profile of the directors (Enclose identity proof and 

address proof of the directors). 

2.  Number  of  50[persons  associated  with  investment  advice]  who  render/ 
propose to render investment advice under these regulations on behalf of the 
applicant.  

51[3. Declaration by the applicant that its principal officer and persons associated 
with investment advice currently comply with the certification, qualification 
and experience requirements under regulation 7.] 

                                                 

47 Omitted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
omission, the following words of clause (2) read as under;  
(If  the  applicant  is  an  existing  investment  adviser  applying  for  fresh  registration,  then  provide  a  declaration 
stating that it shall obtain such certification within two years from the date of commencement of these regulations 
and submit a copy of the certification to the Board within 15 days of receipt of such certification.) 
48 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, clause 3 read as under; 
“3.  Number  of  employees  and  agents  of  the  applicant,  if  any,  who  shall  render  investment  advice  under  these 
regulations  on  behalf  of  the  applicant.  Provide  documents  as  mentioned  in  points  (1)  to  (2)  above  for  such 
employees/ agents.” 
49 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
50 Substituted for the words “employees and agents of the applicant (hereinafter referred to as ‘representatives’)” 
by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
51 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, clause 3 read as under; 
”3. Declaration by the applicant that its representatives currently comply with the certification and qualification 
requirements under regulation 7.  
(If  the  applicant  is  an  existing  investment  adviser  applying  for  fresh  registration,  then  provide  a  declaration 
stating that the applicant shall ensure that all its representatives obtain such certification within two years from 

 

24 

4.  Declaration by the applicant  that it shall ensure that its  52[principal officer 
and persons associated with investment advice] comply with the certification 
and qualification requirements under Regulation 7 at all times.  

5.  List of associated companies registered with SEBI, RBI, IRDA or PFRDA 

along with the registration number. 

6.  If  applicant  is  a  bank  or  NBFC,  then  copy  of  approval  from  RBI  for 

undertaking investment advisory services. 

7.  Net  worth  certificate  by  a  chartered  accountant,  not  more  than  six  months 
old. Please note that membership number of the chartered accountant must 
be included in the certificate. 

53[8. Enclose identity proof and address proof of the applicant, principal officer 

and persons associated with investment advice.] 

  

III. In case applicant is a partnership firm or a limited liability partnership: 

1.  Names and Beneficial ownership pattern of the partners 54[, principal officer 
and persons associated with investment advice] engaged/proposed to engage 
in investment advice (Enclose identity proof and address proof of the partners 
55[, principal officer and persons associated with investment advice]). 

56[2.  Whether  the  aforesaid  principal  officer  and  persons  associated  with 
investment advice comply with certification and qualification requirements 
under regulation 7 and applicant has submitted a declaration with respect to 
the same. 
(Provide self-certified copies of supporting documents).] 

57[3. Copy of certification obtained by the aforesaid principal officer and persons 

associated with investment advice in accordance with regulation 7(2).] 

                                                 

the  date  of  commencement  of  these  regulations  and  after  all  its  representatives  obtain  the  certification,  a 
declaration to that effect shall be submitted to SEBI.) 
52 Substituted for the word “representatives” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, 
w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
53 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
54 ibid. 
55 ibid. 
56Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, clause 2. read as under; 
“2.Whether the aforesaid partners have: 
a. 
A professional qualification or post-graduate degree or post graduate diploma in finance, accountancy, 
business  management,  commerce,  economics,  capital  market,  banking,  insurance  or  actuarial  science  from  a 
university  or  an  institution  recognized  by  the  Central  Government  or  any  State  Government  or  a  recognised 
foreign university or institution or association; or  
b. 
financial products or securities or fund or asset or portfolio management.  

A graduate in any discipline with an experience of at least five years in activities relating to advice in 

    (Provide self certified copies of supporting documents). 

57 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, clause 3. read as under; 
“3.Copy of certification obtained by the aforesaid partners in accordance with regulation 7(2). 

 

25 

4.  Declaration that the aforesaid 58[principal officer and persons associated with 
investment  advice]  shall  obtain  fresh  certification  before  expiry  of  the 
validity of the existing certification to ensure continuity in compliance with 
certification requirements.  

5.  Copy of assets and liabilities statement and certification of  59[networth] of 
the partnership firm  certified by a chartered  accountant (not more than six 
months old at the time of filing of application). Please note that membership 
number of the chartered accountant must be included in the certificate. 

 

IV.  In  case  applicant  is  a  body  corporate  (other  than  company  or  limited  liability 
partnership): 

1.  Shareholding  pattern  and  profile  of  the  directors  60[,  principal  officer  and 
persons  associated  with  investment  advice]  (Enclose  identity  proof  and 
address  proof  of  the  directors  61[,  principal  officer  and  persons  associated 
with investment advice]). 

2.  Whether the applicant is set up or established under the laws of the Central 
or State Legislature and whether the applicant is permitted to carry on of the 
activity  of  an  investment  adviser  (Enclose  relevant  extract  of  the  relevant 
Statute/Act). 

3.  Number  of  62[principal  officer  and  persons  associated  with  investment 
advice]  who  render/  propose  to  render  investment  advice  under  these 
regulations on behalf of the applicant.  

4.  63[Declaration  by  the  applicant  that  its  principal  officer  and  persons 
associated with investment advice currently comply with the certification and 
qualification requirements under regulation 7.] 

                                                 

(If  the  applicant  is  an  existing  investment  adviser  applying  for  fresh  registration,  then  provide  a  declaration 
stating that all the partners engaged in investment advice shall obtain such certification within two years from 
the date of commencement of these regulations and after all such partners obtain the certification, a declaration 
to that effect shall be submitted to SEBI.)” 
58 Substituted for the word “partner” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 
30-09-2020. 
59 Substituted for the word “net tangible assets” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
60 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
61 ibid. 
62 Substituted for the words “employees and agents of the applicant (hereinafter referred to as ‘representatives’)” 
by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
63Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, clause 4 read as under; 
“4. Declaration by the applicant that its representatives currently comply with the certification and qualification 
requirements under regulation 7. 
(If  the  applicant  is  an  existing  investment  adviser  applying  for  fresh  registration,  then  provide  a  declaration 
stating that the applicant shall ensure that all its representatives obtain such certification within two years from 
the  date  of  commencement  of  these  regulations  and  after  all  its  representatives  obtain  the  certification,  a 
declaration to that effect shall be submitted to SEBI.) 

 

26 

5.  Declaration by the applicant  that it shall ensure that its  64[principal officer 
and persons associated with investment advice] comply with the certification 
and qualification requirements under regulation 7 at all times.  

6.  Net  worth  certificate  by  a  chartered  accountant,  not  more  than  six  months 
old. Please note that membership number of the chartered accountant must 
be included in the certificate. 

3.  BUSINESS PLAN 

1.  Proposed business plan & means of achieving the same. 
2.  The type of products/ securities on which investment advice is proposed to 

be rendered. 

3.  Process for risk profiling of the client and for assessing suitability of advice.  

4.  DETAILS OF INFRASTRUCTURE  

1.  Details  of  office  space,  office  equipment,  furniture  and  fixtures, 
for 

research  capacity, 

research  software 

communication 
undertaking investment advisory services. 

facilities, 

2.  Declaration that the applicant has the necessary infrastructure to effectively 

discharge the activities of an investment adviser. 

65[5. IMPLEMENTATION OF ADVICE OR EXECUTION SERVICES. 

1.  Provide  a  declaration  that  no  consideration  including  any  commission  or 
referral  fees  whether  embedded  or  indirect  or  otherwise  by  whatever  name 
called shall be received directly or indirectly at Investment Adviser’s group or 
family level for the said service, as the case maybe. 

2. If the applicant is a non-individual, whether the applicant proposes to offer 
distribution services.] 

6.  OTHER INFORMATION/DECLARATIONS/ REGULATORY ACTIONS 

(a)  Details of all settled and pending disputes in the last 5 years. 
(b) Whether any previous application for grant of certificate made by any person directly 
or  indirectly  connected  with  the  applicant  has  been  rejected  by  the  Board;  If  yes, 
provide details of the same. 

(c)  Whether any disciplinary action has been taken by the Board or any other regulatory 
authority against any person directly or indirectly connected with the applicant under 
the Act or the regulations made there under in the last 5 years. If yes, provide details 
of the action. 

                                                 

64  Substituted  for  the  words  “representatives”  by  the  SEBI  (Investment  Advisers)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
65 Substituted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. Prior to its 
substitution, item 5 read as under; 
“EXECUTION SERVICES 
1. 

If  the  applicant  is  a  body  corporate,  whether  the  applicant  proposes  to  offer  distribution  or  execution 
services to its clients. 
If  yes,  provide  a  declaration  that  the  services  are  being  offered  through  a  subsidiary/  separately 
identifiable department or division.” 

27 

2. 

 

(d) Whether  the  applicant/directors/promoters/  partners  66[,  principal  officer  and  persons 
associated  with  investment  advice]  have  been  indicted/involved  in  any  economic 
offence in the last 5 years. If yes, provide details of the same. 

(e)  A  credit  report/  score  from  CIBIL  for  the  applicant.(For  applicants  other  than 

financial institutions & banking companies) 

(f)  Declaration that the applicant, its 67[directors, principal officer, persons associated with 
investment advice] and partners, if any, are fit and proper persons based on the criteria 
as  specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008; 

(g) Declaration  that  the  applicant  shall  not  obtain  any  consideration  by  way  of 
remuneration or compensation or any other form whatsoever, from any person other 
than the client  being  advised, in  respect  of the underlying products  or securities for 
which advice is provided to the client. 

(h) Any other information considered relevant to the nature of services to be rendered by 

the applicant. 

7.  DECLARATION STATEMENT  

I/We hereby agree and declare that the information supplied in the application, including 
the attachment sheets, is complete and true. 

AND I/ we further agree that, I/we shall notify the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
immediately any change in the information provided in the application. 

I/  We  further  agree  that  I/  we  shall  comply  with,  and  be  bound  by  the  Securities  and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  and  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013, guidelines/instructions as may be announced by 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India from time to time. 

I/ We further agree that as a condition of registration, I/ we shall abide by such operational 
instructions/directives  as  may  be  issued  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
from time to time. 

 

For and on behalf of ____________________________________________________ 

(Name of the applicant) 

Authorized signatory/ Applicant 

(Signature) 

(Date and Place) 

                                                 

66 Inserted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
67 Substituted for the word “representatives” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, 
w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 

 

 

28 

FORM B 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

(Investment Adviser) Regulations, 2013 

[See regulation 9] 

Certificate of registration as investment adviser 

I. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), read with the regulations made there under, 
the Board hereby grants a certificate of registration to  

_______________________________________________________________  

as an investment adviser subject to the conditions specified in the Act and in the regulations 
made thereunder.  

 

II. The Registration Number of the investment adviser is   

IN/IA/_____________.  

Date :  

Place : MUMBAI  

By Order  

Sd/-  

For and on behalf of  

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

29 

68[SECOND SCHEDULE  

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 

 

 

[Regulation 9] 

 

FEES 

1.  Every applicant shall pay non-refundable application fees along with the application 

for grant 69[***] of certificate of registration as under: 

a.  For individuals and firms                                          

₹  5,000  

b.  For  Body  Corporate 
Limited 

including 
Liability Partnerships  

₹  25,000  

 

2.  Every applicant shall pay registration 70[***] fee at the time of grant or renewal of 

certificate by the Board as under:  

a.  for individuals and firms   

₹10,000  

b.  for 

Body 

Corporate 
including  Limited  Liability 
Partnerships]   

₹ 5,00,000 

3.  71[An investment adviser who has been granted a certificate of registration, to keep 
its  registration  in  force,  shall  pay  fee  prescribed  at  paragraph  2  above  every  five  
years , from the date of grant of certificate of registration or from the date of grant 

                                                 

68  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f  23.05.2014.  Prior  to  its 
substitution, the Second Schedule read as under: 

1.  “Every  applicant  shall  pay  non-refundable  application  fees  of  five  thousand  rupees  along  with  the 

application for grant or renewal of certificate of registration. 

2.  Applicants  which  are  individuals  and  firms  shall  pay  a  sum  of  ten  thousand  rupees  as  registration/ 

renewal fee at the time of grant or renewal of certificate by the Board. 

3.  A body corporate shall pay a sum of one lakh rupees as registration/ renewal fee at the time of grant or 

renewal of certificate by the Board. 

4.  The fee referred to in paragraph 1, 2 and 3 shall be paid by the applicant within fifteen days from the 
date of receipt of intimation from the Board by a demand draft in favor of 'Securities and Exchange Board 
of India' payable at Mumbai or at respective regional or local office.” 

69  The  words  “or  renewal”  omitted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
70  The  words  “/renewal”  omitted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
71 Inserted by the by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 

 

30 

of certificate of registration granted prior to the commencement of the Securities and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  in  Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016, as the case may be, within three 
months before expiry of the period for which fee has been paid.] 

 

4.  72[The fee referred to in paragraph  2 shall be paid by the applicant within fifteen 
days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board by way of demand draft  
in  favour  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India'  payable  at  Mumbai  or  at 
respective  regional  or  local  office.  or  by  way  of  direct  credit  in  the  bank  account 
through NEFT/RTGS/IMPS or any other mode allowed by RBI.] 

 

Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 

THIRD SCHEDULE 

[See sub-regulation (9) of regulation 15] 

 

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR INVESTMENT ADVISER 

1.  Honesty and fairness 

 

An investment adviser shall act honestly, fairly and in the best interests of its clients 
and in the integrity of the market. 

2.  Diligence 

An investment adviser shall act with due skill, care and diligence in the best interests 
of its clients and shall ensure that its advice is offered after thorough analysis and taking 
into account available alternatives. 

3.  Capabilities 

An  investment  adviser  shall  have  and  employ  effectively  appropriate  resources  and 
procedures which are needed for the efficient performance of its business activities. 

4.  Information about clients 

An  investment  adviser  shall  seek  from  its  clients,  information  about  their  financial 
situation, investment experience and investment objectives relevant to the services to 
be provided and maintain confidentiality of such information.  

5.  Information to its clients 

                                                 

72 by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 

 

31 

An investment adviser shall make adequate disclosures of relevant material information 
while dealing with its clients. 

6.  Fair and reasonable charges 

An investment adviser advising a client may charge fees, subject to any ceiling as may 
be specified by the Board 73[***]. The investment adviser shall ensure that fees charged 
to the clients is fair and reasonable.   

7.  Conflicts of interest 

An investment adviser shall try to avoid conflicts of interest as far as possible and when 
they  cannot  be  avoided,  it  shall  ensure  that  appropriate  disclosures  are  made  to  the 
clients and that the clients are fairly treated. 

8.  Compliance 

An investment adviser including its 74[partners, principal officer and persons associated 
with investment advice] shall comply with all regulatory requirements applicable to the 
conduct of its business activities so as to promote the best interests of clients and the 
integrity of the market. 

9.  Responsibility of senior management 

The senior management of a body corporate which is registered as investment adviser 
shall bear primary responsibility for ensuring the maintenance of appropriate standards 
of conduct and adherence to proper procedures by the body corporate.  

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

                                                 

73 The words “if any” was omitted by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 
30-09-2020. 
74 Substituted for the words “representative(s)” by the SEBI (Investment Advisers) (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2020, w.e.f. 30-09-2020. 
 

 

32 

