 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

GAZETTE OF NDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART (II) – Section 3 – Sub-Section (ii) 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA  

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 17th July, 2003 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA (PROHIBITION OF 

FRAUDULENT AND UNFAIR TRADE PRACTICES RELATING TO 

SECURITIES MARKET) REGULATIONS, 2003 

S.O.  816  (E).  -  In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  section  30  of  the  Securities  and 
Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992),  the  Board  hereby  makes  the  following 
regulations, namely:— 
 
 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

 

Short title and commencement 
1.  (1)  These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities  Market) 
Regulations, 2003. 
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette. 

Definitions 
2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires,— 
(a)  “Act” means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992); 
(b)   1[“dealing in securities” includes:  

                                                           
1 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018. w.e.f. from February 01, 2019 . 

1 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

(i)  an act  of buying, selling  or subscribing pursuant  to  any issue of any security or 
agreeing  to  buy,  sell  or  subscribe  to  any  issue  of  any  security  or  otherwise 
transacting  in  any  way  in  any  security  by  any  persons  including  as  principal, 
agent, or intermediary referred to in section 12 of the Act;  

(ii)  such  acts  which  may  be  knowingly  designed  to  influence  the  decision  of 

investors in securities; and  

(iii) any act of providing assistance to carry out the aforementioned acts.] 

 
(c)  “fraud” includes any act, expression, omission or concealment committed whether in 
a deceitful manner or not by a person or by any other person with his connivance or 
by his agent while dealing in securities in order to induce another person or his agent 
to  deal  in  securities,  whether  or  not  there  is  any  wrongful  gain  or  avoidance  of  any 
loss, and shall also include— 
(1)  a knowing misrepresentation of the truth or concealment of material fact in order 

that another person may act to his detriment; 

(2)  a suggestion  as to a  fact which is not true by one who does not believe it to be 

true; 

(3)  an  active  concealment  of  a  fact  by  a  person  having  knowledge  or  belief  of  the 

fact; 

(4)  a promise made without any intention of performing it; 
(5)  a  representation  made  in  a  reckless  and  careless  manner  whether  it  be  true  or 

false; 

 (6)  any such act or omission as any other law specifically declares to be fraudulent, 

 (7) deceptive  behaviour  by  a  person  depriving  another  of  informed  consent  or  full 

participation, 

(8) a false statement made without reasonable ground for believing it to be true. 
(9) the act of an issuer of securities giving out misinformation that affects the market 
price of the security, resulting in investors being effectively  misled even though 
they did not rely on the statement itself or anything derived from it other than the 
market price. 

And “fraudulent” shall be construed accordingly; 
 
Nothing contained in this clause shall apply to any general comments made in good faith in 

                                                                                                                                                                                    
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 
“dealing in securities” includes an act of buying, selling or subscribing pursuant to any issue of any security or 
agreeing to buy, sell or subscribe to any issue of any security  or  otherwise  transacting  in  any  way  in  any  
security  by  any  person  as principal, agent or intermediary referred to in section 12 of the Act." 

2 

 

 

regard to— 
(a)  the economic policy of the government  
(b)  the economic situation of the country  
(c)  trends in the securities market or 
(d)  any other matter of a like nature 

 
 
whether such comments are made in public or in private; 
 
 

(d)  “Investigating Authority” means any 2[person] authorized by the Board to undertake 
investigation under section 11C of the Act;  

(e)  “securities”  means  securities  as  defined  in  section  2  of  the  Securities  Contracts 

(Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956). 

(2) Words and expressions used and not defined in these regulations, but defined in the Act 
or  in  the  rules  or  regulations  made  thereunder,  shall  have  the  meanings  respectively 
assigned to them in the Act or rules or regulations made thereunder, as the case may be. 
 
 

CHAPTER II 

PROHIBITION OF FRAUDULENT AND UNFAIR TRADE 

PRACTICES RELATING TO THE SECURITIES MARKET 

 
 

 
 

 

3. Prohibition of certain dealings in securities 

No person shall directly or indirectly— 

(a)  buy, sell or otherwise deal in securities in a fraudulent manner; 

(b)  use  or  employ,  in  connection  with  issue,  purchase  or  sale  of  any  security  listed  or 
proposed  to  be  listed  in  a  recognized  stock  exchange,  any  manipulative  or  deceptive 
device or contrivance in contravention of the provisions of the Act or the rules or the 
regulations made there under; 

(c)  employ  any  device,  scheme  or  artifice  to  defraud  in  connection  with  dealing  in  or 
issue  of  securities  which  are  listed  or  proposed  to  be  listed  on  a  recognized  stock 
exchange; 

(d)  engage  in  any  act,  practice,  course  of  business  which  operates  or  would  operate  as 
fraud  or  deceit  upon  any  person  in  connection  with  any  dealing  in  or  issue  of 
securities which are listed or proposed to be listed on a recognized stock exchange in 
contravention of the provisions of the Act or the rules and the regulations made there 
under. 

                                                           
2 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 w.e.f. March 13, 2020. 
Before the substitution the words read as “officer of the Board not below the rank of Division Chief,". 

3 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 

4. Prohibition of manipulative, fraudulent and unfair trade practices 

(1)  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of  regulation  3,  no  person  shall  indulge  in  a 

3[manipulative,] fraudulent or an unfair trade practice in securities 4[markets]. 
5[Explanation.–  For  the  removal  of  doubts,  it  is  clarified  that  any  act  of  diversion, 
misutilisation or siphoning off of assets or earnings of a company whose securities are 
listed or any concealment of such act or any device, scheme or artifice to manipulate 
the books of accounts or financial statement of such a company that would directly or 
indirectly manipulate the price of securities of that company shall be and shall always 
be  deemed  to  have  been  considered  as  manipulative,  fraudulent  and  an  unfair  trade 
practice in the securities market.] 

 

(2)  Dealing in securities shall be deemed to be a  6[manipulative] fraudulent or an unfair 

trade practice if it involves 7[any of the following]:— 
(a)  8[knowingly] indulging in an act which creates false or misleading appearance of 

trading in the securities market; 

(b)  dealing  in  a  security  not  intended  to  effect  transfer  of  beneficial  ownership  but 
intended  to  operate  only  as  a  device  to  inflate,  depress  or  cause  fluctuations  in 
the price of such security for wrongful gain or avoidance of loss; 

9[(c)  inducing  any  person  to  subscribe  to  an  issue  of  the    securities  for  fraudulently 
securing  the  minimum  subscription  to  such  issue  of  securities,  by  advancing  or 
agreeing to advance any money to any other person or through any other means;] 

                                                           
3 Inserted  vide  Securities and  Exchange Board of India  (Prohibition of Fraudulent  and Unfair  Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
4 ibid 
5 Inserted  vide  Securities and  Exchange Board of India  (Prohibition of Fraudulent  and Unfair  Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Second Amendment) Regulations, 2020 w.e.f. October 19, 2020. 

6 ibid 
7 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
Before the substitution the words read as "fraud and may include all or any of the following, namely". 
8 Inserted  vide  Securities and  Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent  and Unfair  Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
9 Substituted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 
"(c) advancing or agreeing to advance any money to any person thereby inducing any other person to offer to 
buy any security in any issue only with the intention of securing the minimum subscription to such issue;" 

4 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

10[(d)    inducing  any  person  for  dealing  in  any  securities  for  artificially  inflating, 
depressing,  maintaining  or  causing  fluctuation  in  the  price  of  securities  through 
any means including by paying, offering or agreeing to pay or offer any money or 
money's worth, directly or indirectly, to any person;] 

(e)  any  act  or  omission  amounting  to  manipulation  of  the  price  of  a  security 
11[including,  influencing  or  manipulating  the  reference  price  or  bench  mark  price  of 
any securities]; 

(f)  12[knowingly] publishing  or  causing  to  publish  or  reporting  or  causing  to  report 
by  a  person  dealing  in  securities  any  information  13[relating  to  securities, 
including  financial  results,  financial  statements,  mergers  and  acquisitions, 
regulatory  approvals,]  which  is  not  true  or  which  he  does  not  believe  to  be  true 
prior to or in the course of dealing in securities; 

(g)  entering  into  a  transaction  in  securities  without  intention  of  performing  it  or 

without intention of change of ownership of such security; 

14[(h)  selling,  dealing  or  pledging  of  stolen,  counterfeit  or  fraudulently  issued 

securities whether in physical or dematerialized form:  
Provided that if:- 
(i) 

the  person  selling,  dealing  in  or  pledging  stolen,  counterfeit  or  fraudulently 
issued securities was a holder in due course; or  

(ii)  the stolen, counterfeit or fraudulently issued securities were previously traded 

on the market through a bonafide transaction,  

(iii)  such selling, dealing or pledging of stolen, counterfeit or fraudulently issued 
securities  shall  not  be  considered  as  a  manipulative,  fraudulent,  or  unfair 
trade practice;] 

                                                           
10  Substituted  vide  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 
"(d)  paying, offering or agreeing to pay or offer, directly or indirectly, to any person any  money  or  money’s  
worth  for  inducing  such  person  for  dealing  in   any security  with  the  object  of  inflating,  depressing,  
maintaining  or  causing fluctuation in the price of such security;" 
11 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
12 ibid 
13 ibid 
14  Substituted  vide  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 
"(h) selling, dealing or pledging of stolen or counterfeit security whether in physical or dematerialized form;" 

5 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

15[(i)  ***] 

16[(j)  ***] 

(k)  17["disseminating  information  or  advice  through  any  media,  whether  physical  or 
digital,  which  the  disseminator  knows  to  be  false  or  misleading  and  which  is 
designed or likely to influence the decision of investors dealing in securities;] 

18[(l) ***]; 

(m)  19[a  market  participant  entering  into  transactions  on  behalf  of  client  without  the 
knowledge of or instructions from client or misutilizing or diverting the funds or 
securities of the client held in fiduciary capacity"]; 

(n)  circular  transactions  in  respect  of  a  security  entered  into  between  20[persons 
including  intermediaries  to  artificially]  provide  a  false  appearance  of  trading  in 
such  security  or  to  inflate,  depress  or  cause  fluctuations  in  the  price  of  such 
security; 

(o) 21[fraudulent inducement of any person by a market participant to deal in securities 

                                                           
15 Omitted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
16 Omitted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
17  Substituted  vide  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 
"an  advertisement  that  is  misleading  or  that  contains  information  in  a  distorted  manner  and  which  may 
influence the decision of the investors" 
18 Omitted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
19  Substituted  vide  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 
"an intermediary not disclosing to his client transactions entered into on his behalf including taking an option 
position;" 
20  Substituted  vide  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
Before the substitution the words read as "intermediaries in order to increase commission to" 
21  Substituted  vide  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 

6 

 

 

 

 

 
 

with the objective of enhancing his brokerage or commission or income;] 

(p)  an  intermediary  predating  or  otherwise  falsifying  records  22[including  contract 
instructions,  balance  of  securities  statement,  client  account 

notes,  client 
statements]; 

(q)  23[any  order  in  securities  placed  by  a  person,  while  directly  or  indirectly  in 
possession  of information  that is  not  publically  available, regarding a substantial 
impending transaction in that securities, its underlying securities or its derivative;] 

(r)   24[knowingly] planting   false   or   misleading   news   which   may   induce   sale  

or   purchase   of securities. 

 
25[(s) 26{mis-selling of securities or services relating to securities market; 

Explanation-  For  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  "mis-selling"  means  sale  of 
securities or services relating to  securities market  by  any person, directly or 
indirectly, by─  

(i)  knowingly making a false or misleading statement, or  

                                                                                                                                                                                    
"encouraging  the  clients  by  an  intermediary  to  deal  in  securities  solely  with  the  object  of  enhancing  his 
brokerage or commission;" 
22  Substituted  vide  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019.  
Before the substitution the words read as "such as contract notes" 
23  Substituted  vide  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows: 
"an intermediary buying or selling securities in  advance of a substantial client order or whereby a futures or 
option position is taken about an impending transaction in the same or related futures or options contract;" 
24 Inserted vide Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
25 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012 w.e.f. December 11, 2012. 
26    Substituted  vide  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
Before the substitution the provision read as follows 
"mis-selling of units of a mutual fund scheme; 
Explanation.- For the purpose of this clause, "mis-selling" means sale of units of a mutual fund scheme by any 
person, directly or indirectly, by─ 
(i) making a false or misleading statement, or 
(ii) concealing or omitting material facts of the scheme, or 
(iii)concealing the associated risk factors of the scheme, or 
(iv) not taking reasonable care to ensure suitability of the scheme to the buyer." 

7 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

(ii) knowingly concealing or omitting material facts, or  

(iii)knowingly concealing the associated risk, or  

(iv) not  taking  reasonable  care  to  ensure  suitability  of  the  securities  or 

service to the buyer}]; 

 

27[(t)  illegal  mobilization  of  funds  by  sponsoring  or  causing  to  be  sponsored  or 
carrying on or causing to be carried on any collective investment scheme by any 
person.] 

 

28[Explanation 29{–1} For the purposes of this sub-regulation, for the removal of doubts, it 
is  clarified  that  the  acts  or  omissions  listed  in  this  sub-regulation  are  not  exhaustive  and 
that  an  act  or  omission  is  prohibited  if  it  falls  within  the  purview  of  regulation  3, 
notwithstanding  that  it  is  not  included  in  this  sub-regulation  or  is  described  as  being 
committed only by a certain category of persons in this sub-regulation.]   

30[Explanation – 2 Market  Participant shall include any person or entity registered under 
Section 12 of the Act and its employees and agents.] 

CHAPTER III 

INVESTIGATION 

Power of the Board to order investigation 
5.  Where  the  Board,  the  Chairman,  the  member  or  the  Executive  Director  (hereinafter 
referred to as “appointing authority”) has reasonable ground to believe that— 

(a)  the  transactions  in  securities  are  being  dealt  with  in  a  manner  detrimental  to  the 

investors or the securities market in violation of these regulations; 

(b)  any intermediary or any person associated with the securities market has violated any 

of the provisions of the Act or the rules or the regulations, 

                                                           
27 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. September 6, 2013. 

28 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2013 w.e.f. September 6, 2013. 
29  Re-numbered  vide  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
30 Inserted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices 
relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 

8 

 

 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

it may, at any time by order in writing, direct any 31[person] (hereinafter referred to as the 
“Investigating  Authority”)  specified  in  the  order  to  investigate  the  affairs  of  such 
intermediary or persons  associated  with  the  securities  market  or  any  other  person  and  to 
report thereon to the Board in the manner provided in section 
11C of the Act. 

Powers of Investigating Authority 
6.  Without  prejudice  to  the  powers  conferred  under  the  Act,  the  Investigating  Authority 
shall have the following powers for the conduct of investigation, namely :— 

(1)  to call for information or records from any person specified in section 11(2)(i) of the 

Act; 

(2)  to undertake inspection of  any book, or  register, or other document or record of  any 
listed  public  company  or  a  public  company  (not  being  intermediaries  referred  to  in 
section 12 of the Act) which intends to get its securities listed on any recognized stock 
exchange  where  the  Investigating  Authority  has  reasonable  grounds  to  believe  that 
such company has been conducting in violation of these regulations; 

(3)  to  require  any  intermediary  or  any  person  associated  with  securities  market  in  any 
manner  to  furnish  such  information  to,  or  produce  such  books,  or  registers,  or  other 
documents, or record before him or any person authorized by him in this behalf as he 
may  consider  necessary  if  the  furnishing  of  such  information  or  the  production  of 
such books, or registers, or other documents, or record is relevant or necessary for the 
purposes of the investigation; 

(4)  to  keep  in  his  custody  any  books,  registers,  other  documents  and  record  produced 
under this regulation for a maximum period of one month which may be extended upto 
a period of six months by the Board : 

Provided  that  the  Investigating  Authority  may  call  for  any  book,  register,  other 
document or record if the same is needed again : 

Provided  further  that  if  the  person  on  whose  behalf  the  books,  registers,  other 
documents  and  record  are  produced  requires  certified  copies  of  the  books,  registers, 
other documents and record produced before the Investigating Authority, he shall give 
certified copies of such books, registers, other documents and record to such person or 
on whose behalf the books, registers, other documents and record were produced; 

 
                                                           
31  Substituted  vide  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020 w.e.f. March 13, 2020. 
Before the substitution the words read as “officer not below the rank of Division Chief". 

9 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

(5)  to examine orally and to record the statement of the person concerned or any director, 
partner,  member  or  employee  of  such  person  and  to  take  notes  of  such  oral 
examination to be used as an evidence against such person : 

Provided that the said notes shall be read over to, or by, and signed by, the person so 
examined; 

(6)  to examine on oath any manager, managing director, officer or other employee of any 
intermediary  or  any  person  associated  with  securities  market  in  any  manner  in 
relation to the affairs of his business and may administer an oath accordingly and for 
that purpose may require any of those persons to appear before him personally. 

 
Power of the Investigating Authority to be exercised with prior approval 
7. The Investigating Authority may, after obtaining specific approval from the Chairman or 
Member also exercise all or any of the following powers, namely :— 

(a)  to  call  for  information  and  record  from  any  bank  or  any  other  authority  or  board  or 
corporation established or constituted by or under any Central, State or Provincial Act 
in respect of any transaction in securities which are under investigation; 

(b)  to make an application to the Judicial Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction 
for an order for the seizure of any books, registers, other documents and record, if in 
the  course  of  investigation,  the  Investigating  Authority  has  reasonable  ground  to 
believe that such books,  registers, other documents  and record of, or  relating to,  any 
intermediary  or  any  person  associated  with  securities  market  in  any  manner  may  be 
destroyed, mutilated, altered, falsified or secreted; 

 
(c)  to keep in his custody  the books,  registers, other documents and record  seized under 
these regulations for such period not later than the conclusion of the investigation as 
he considers necessary and thereafter to return the same to the person, the company or 
the  other  body  corporate,  or,  as  the  case  may  be,  to  the  managing  director  or  the 
manager or any other person from whose custody or power they were seized : 

Provided that the Investigating Authority may, before returning such books, registers, 
other  documents  and  record  as  aforesaid,  place  identification  marks  on  them  or  any 
part thereof; 

(d)  save as otherwise provided in this regulation, every search or seizure made under this 
regulation  shall  be  carried  out  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the  Code  of 
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) relating to searches or seizures made under that 
Code. 

10 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Duty to co-operate, etc. 
8.  (1)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  person  in  respect  of  whom  an  investigation  has  been 
ordered under regulation 7— 

(a)  to produce to the Investigating Authority or any person authorized by him such books, 
accounts and other documents and record in his custody or control and to furnish such 
statements and information as the Investigating Authority or the person so authorized 
by him may reasonably require for the purposes of the investigation; 

(b)  to appear before the Investigating Authority personally when required to do so by him 
under regulation 6 or regulation 7 to answer any question which is put to him by the 
Investigating Authority in pursuance of the powers under the said regulations. 

(2) Without prejudice to the provisions of 32[the Companies Act, 2013 (No. 18 of 2013)], it 
shall be the duty of every  manager,  managing  director, officer  and other  employee  of  the 
company  and  every  intermediary  referred  to  in  section  12  of  the  Act  or  every  person 
associated  with  the  securities  market  to  preserve  and  to  produce  to  the  Investigating 
Authority  or  any  person  authorized  by  him  in  this  behalf,  all  the  books,  registers,  other 
documents  and  record  of,  or  relating  to,  the  company  or,  as  the  case  may  be,  of  or 
relating to, the intermediary or such person, which are in their custody or power. 

(3)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  the  provisions  of  sub-regulations  (1)  and  (2), 
such person shall— 

(a)  allow  the  Investigating  Authority  to  have  access  to  the  premises  occupied  by  such 

person at all reasonable times for the purpose of investigation; 

(b)  extend  to  the  Investigating  Authority  reasonable  facilities  for  examining  any  books, 
accounts and other documents in his custody or control (whether kept manually or in 
computer   or   in   any   other   form)   reasonably   required   for   the   purposes   of   the 
investigation; 

(c) provide to such  Investigating Authority  any such books, accounts and records which, 
in the opinion of the Investigating Authority, are relevant to the investigation or, as the 
case may be, allow him to take out computer out-prints thereof. 

Submission of report to the Board 
9.  The  Investigating  Authority  shall,  on  completion  of  investigation,  after  taking  into 
account all relevant facts, submit a report to the appointing authority : 

 
                                                           
32    Substituted  vide  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of  Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade 
Practices relating to Securities Market) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 w.e.f. February 01, 2019. 
Before the substitution the words read as "sections 235 to 241 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956)" 

11 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

Provided that the Investigating Authority may submit an interim report pending completion 
of  investigations  if  he  considers  necessary  in  the  interest  of  investors  and  the  securities 
market or as directed by the appointing authority. 

Enforcement by the Board 
10. The Board may, after consideration of the report referred to in regulation 9, if satisfied 
that  there  is  a  violation  of  these  regulations  and  after  giving  a  reasonable  opportunity  of 
hearing to the persons concerned, issue such directions or take such action as mentioned in 
regulation 11 and regulation 12: 

Provided that the Board may, in the interest of investors and the securities market, pending 
the  receipt  of  the  report  of  the  investigating  authority  referred  to  in  regulation  9,  issue 
directions under regulation 11: 

Provided  further  that  the  Board  may,  in  the  interest  of  investors  and  securities  market, 
dispense with the opportunity of pre-decisional hearing by recording reasons in writing and 
shall  give  an  opportunity  of  post-decisional  hearing  to  the  persons  concerned  as 
expeditiously as possible. 

11. (1) The  Board may,  without prejudice to  the  provisions contained in  sub-sections (1), 
(2), (2A) and (3) of section 11 and section 11B  of the Act, by an order, for reasons to be 
recorded in writing, in the interests of investors and securities market, issue or take any of 
the  following   actions   or  directions,  either  pending  investigation   or  enquiry   or  on 
completion of such investigation or enquiry, namely:— 

(a)  suspend the trading of the security found to be or prima facie found to be involved in 

fraudulent and unfair trade practice in a recognized stock exchange; 

(b)  restrain   persons   from   accessing   the   securities   market   and   prohibit   any   person 

associated with securities market to buy, sell or deal in securities; 

 

(c)  suspend any office-bearer of any stock exchange or self-regulatory organization from 

holding such position; 

(d)  impound and retain the proceeds or securities in respect of any transaction which is in 

violation or prima facie in violation of these regulations; 

(e)  direct  and  intermediary  or  any  person  associated  with  the  securities  market  in  any 
manner not  to  dispose of or alienate  an  asset forming part of  a fraudulent  and unfair 
transaction; 

(f)  require  the  person  concerned  to  call  upon  any  of  its  officers,  other  employees  or 

12 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

representatives to refrain from dealing in securities in any particular manner; 

(g)  prohibit  the  person  concerned  from  disposing  of  any  of  the  securities  acquired  in 

contravention of these regulations; 

(h)  direct   the   person   concerned   to   dispose   of   any   such   securities   acquired   in 
contravention  of  these  regulations,  in  such  manner  as  the  Board  may  deem  fit,  for 
restoring the status quo ante; 

 
(2)  The  Board  shall  issue  a  press  release  in  respect  of  any  final  order  passed  under  sub- 
regulation  (1)  in  at  least  two  newspapers  of  which  one  shall  have  nationwide  circulation 
and shall also put the order on the website of the Board. 

33[Manner of service of summons and notices issued by the Board. 
11A. A summons or notice issued by the Board  under these regulations may  be served in 
the  manner  provided  in  regulation  22  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)  Regulations, 
2002.] 

Suspension or cancellation of registration 
12. (1) The  Board may,  without prejudice to  the  provisions contained in  sub-sections (1), 
(2), (2A) and (3) of section 11 and section 11B  of the Act, by an order, for reasons to be 
recorded  in  writing,  in  the  interests  of  investors  and  securities  market  take  the  following 
action against an intermediary : 
(a)  issue a warning or censure 
(b)  suspend the registration of the intermediary; or 
(c)  cancel of the registration of the intermediary 
 
Provided that no final order of suspension or cancellation of an intermediary for violation 
of  these  regulations  shall  be  passed  unless the  procedure  specified  in  the  regulations 
applicable   to   such   intermediary   under   the   Securities   and   Exchange   Board   of   India   
(Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)  Regulations, 
2002 is complied with. 
 
Repeal and savings 
13. (1) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair 
Trade Practices relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 1995 is hereby repealed. 

(2)  Notwithstanding repeal  of the  Securities and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of 
                                                           
33  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Manner  of  Service  of  Summons  and  Notices  issued  by  the  Board) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2007 w.e.f. 23-04-2007. 

 

 

13 

 

 
 

 

Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities  Market)  Regulations,  1995, 
any violation of regulations 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair 
Trade Practices Relating to Securities Market) Regulations, 1995 shall be investigated and 
proceeded against in accordance with the procedure laid down in these regulations. 

(3)  Notwithstanding repeal  of the  Securities and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Prohibition  of 
Fraudulent  and  Unfair  Trade  Practices  relating  to  Securities  Market)  Regulations,  1995, 
any  investigation  pending,  at  the  commencement  of  these  regulations  shall  be  continued 
and disposed of in accordance with the procedure laid down in these regulations. 

14 

