 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 

EXTRAORDINARY 

PART-II – SECTION 3 – SUB-SECTION (ii) 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

NOTIFICATION 

Mumbai, the 7th July, 1999 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(CREDIT RATING AGENCIES) REGULATIONS, 1999 

S.O. 547(E).– In exercise of the powers conferred by section 30 read with section 

11  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992  (15  of  1992),  the 

Securities and Exchange Board of India hereby makes the following regulations, 

namely:- 

CHAPTER I 

PRELIMINARY 

Short title and commencement 

1.  (1)  These  regulations  may  be  called  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999. 

(2)  They  shall  come  into  force  on  the  date  of  their  publication  in  the  Official 

Gazette. 

Definitions 

2. (1) In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires, - 

(a) "Act" means the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 

1992); 

(b) "associate", in relation to a credit rating agency, includes a person– 

(i)  who,  directly  or  indirectly,  by  himself,  or  in  combination  with  relatives, 

owns or controls shares carrying not less than ten percent of the voting 

rights of the credit rating agency, or 

Page 1 of 36 

 

 

 

 

(ii)  in  respect  of  whom  the  credit  rating  agency,  directly  or  indirectly,  by 

itself,  or  in  combination  with  other  persons,  owns  or  controls  shares 

carrying not less than ten percent of the voting rights, or 

(iii) majority  of  the  directors  of  which,  own  or  control  shares  carrying  not 

less than ten percent of the voting rights of the credit rating agency, or 

(iv) whose   director,   officer   or   employee   is   also   a   director,   officer   or 

employee of the credit rating agency; 

(c) "Board"  means  the  Board  as  defined  in  clause  (a)  of  sub-section  (1)  of 

section 2 of the Act; 

(d) "body  corporate"  means  a  body  corporate  as  defined  in  clause  (7)  of 

section 2 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); 

(e) "certificate"   means   a   certificate   of   12[[***]  registration 

granted] by the Board under these regulations; 

3  [(ei) 4[***] 

(eii)“change  in  control”,  in  relation  to  a  credit  rating  agency  being  a  body 

corporate, means:— 

(i)  if  its  shares  are  listed  on  any  recognised  stock  exchange,  change  in 

control  as  defined  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 1997; 

(ii)  in  any  other  case,  change  in  the  controlling  interest  in  the  body 

corporate. 

Explanation.─  For  the  purpose  of  sub-clause  (ii),  the  expression 

 

1 Substituted for the words “registration granted or renewed” by SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. 
2 The words “initial or permanent” were omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In 
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
3 Inserted   by   the   SEBI   (Credit   Rating   Agencies)   (Amendment)   Regulations,   2010,   w.e.f. 
19.03.2010. 
4  Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Change  in  Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment) 
Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f  13.04.2011.  Prior  to  its  omission,  clause  (ei)  read  as under: 
“(ei)  change of status or constitution” in relation to a credit rating agency - 
(i) means any change in its status or constitution of whatsoever nature; and 
(ii) without prejudice to generality of sub-clause (i), includes— 
(A)  amalgamation,  demerger,  consolidation  or  any  other  kind  of  corporate  restructuring  falling  within 
the  scope  of  section  391  of  the  Companies  Act, 1956  (1  of  1956)  or  the  corresponding  provision  of  any 
other law for the time being in force; 
(B) change in its managing director or whole-time director; and 
(C) any change in control over the body corporate;” 
 

Page 2 of 36 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“controlling  interest”  means  an  interest,  whether  direct  or  indirect,  to 

the  extent  of  at  least  fifty-one  per  cent  of  voting  rights  in  the  body 

corporate;] 

(f)  "client"  means  any  person  whose  securities  are  rated  by  a  credit  rating 

agency; 

(g) "company"  means  a  company  incorporated  under  the  Companies  Act, 

1956 (1 of 1956); 

(h)  "credit  rating  agency"  means  a  body  corporate  which  is  engaged  in,  or 

proposes to be engaged in, the business of rating of securities offered by 

way of public or rights issue; 

(i)  "economic  offence"  means  an  offence  to  which  the  Economic  Offences 

(Inapplicability  of  Limitation)  Act,  1974  (12  of  1974),  is  applicable  for  the 

time being; 

(j) 5[* * *] 

(k) "form" means any of the forms specified in the First Schedule: 

(l)  "fraud"  has  the  same  meaning  as  is  assigned  to  it  by  section  17  of  the 

Indian Contract Act, 1872 (9 of 1872); 

(m)"group companies" means group companies as defined in the Monopolies 

and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 (54 of 1969); 

(n) "inspecting  officer"  means  any  one  or  more  persons  appointed  by  the 

Board under regulation 29; 

(o) "issuer"  means  a  person  whose  securities  are  proposed  to  be  rated  by  a 

credit rating agency; 

(p) "net-worth"  means  the  aggregate  value  of  the  paid  up  equity  capital 

and free  reserves  (excluding  reserves  created  out  of revaluation), 

reduced  by the  aggregate  value  of accumulated  losses  and  deferred 

expenditure  not written off, including miscellaneous expenses not written 

of; 

(q) "rating"  means  an  opinion  regarding  securities,  expressed  in  the  form  of 

 

5  Omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  Officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) 

Regulations, 2002, w.e.f. 27.09.2002. Prior to its omission, clause (j) read as under: 
“"enquiry  officer"  means  any  officer  of  the  Board,  or  any  other  person,  who  is  authorised  by  the  Board 
under regulation 38”. 
 

Page 3 of 36 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

standard  symbols  or  in  any  other  standardised  manner,  assigned  by  a 

credit  rating  agency  and  used  by  the  issuer  of  such  securities,  to  comply 

with a requirement specified by these regulations; 

(r)  "rating  committee"  means  a  committee  constituted  by  a  credit  rating 

agency to assign rating to a security; 

(s) "regulation" means a regulation forming part of these regulations; 

(t)  "relative" means  a  relative  as  defined  in  section  6  of the  Companies  Act, 

1956 (1 of 1956); 

(u) "schedule"  means  any  of  the  schedules  appended  to  these  regulations; 

and 

(v) "securities" has the meaning assigned to it in clause (h) of section 2 of the 

Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956. 

(2)  Words  and  expressions  used  and  not  defined  in  these  regulations,  but 

defined in the Act, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the 

Act. 

 

CHAPTER II 

REGISTRATION OF CREDIT RATING AGENCIES 

Application for grant of certificate 6[of 7[***] registration] 

3.  (1)  Any  person  proposing  to commence  any  activity  as  a  credit  rating  agency 

on  or  after  the  date  of  commencement  of  these  regulations  shall  make  an 

application  to  the  Board  for  the  grant  of  a  certificate  of  8[***]  registration  for  the 

purpose. 

(2) 9[***] 

 

6 Inserted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 
05.07.2011 
7  The  word “initial”  was  omitted  by  the  Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change In Conditions  Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
8  The  word “initial”  was  omitted  by  the  Securities  and Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change In Conditions  Of 
Registration  Of  Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f. 08-12-2016.  Prior to this the 
word  “initial”  was  inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011  w.e.f. 
05.07.2011. 
9 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission sub-regulation (2) read 
as under : 
“(2) Any  person,  who  was  immediately  before  the  said  date  carrying  on  any activity as a credit rating 
 

Page 4 of 36 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

(3) An application for the grant of a certificate under sub-regulation (1) 10[***] shall 

be made to the Board in Form A of the First Schedule and shall be accompanied 

by  a  non–refundable  application  fee,  as  specified  in  Form  A  of  the  second 

Schedule, to be paid in the manner specified in Part B thereof. 

(4) 11[***] 

Promoter of credit rating agency 

4.  The  Board  shall  not  consider  an  application  under  regulation  3  unless  the 

applicant  is  promoted  by  a  person  belonging  to  any  of  the  following  categories, 

namely: 

(a) a  public  financial  institution,  as  defined  in  section  4  A  of  the  Companies 

Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); 

(b) a  scheduled  commercial  bank  included  for  the  time  being  in  the  second 

schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934); 

(c) a foreign bank operating in India with the approval of the Reserve Bank of 

India; 

(d)12[a  foreign  credit  rating  agency  incorporated  in  a  Financial  Action  Task 

Force  (FATF)  member  jurisdiction  and  recognised  under  their  law,  having  

a minimum of five years’ experience in rating securities;] 

(e) any   company   or   a   body   corporate,   having   continuous   net   worth   of 

minimum  rupees  one  hundred  crores  as  per  its  audited  annual  accounts 

for  the  previous  five  years  prior  to  filing  of  the  application  with  the  Board 

for the grant of certificate under these regulations. 

 

 
agency,  shall  make an application to the  Board for the grant of a certificate within a period of three months 
from such date: 
Provided that the Board may, where it is of the opinion that it is necessary to do so, for reasons to be recorded 
in writing, extend the said period upto a maximum of six months form such date.”  
10 The words “or sub-regulation (2)” were omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In 
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
11 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission sub-regulation (4) read 
as under : 
“(4) Any person referred to in sub-regulation (2) who fails to make an application for the grant of a certificate 
within the period specified in that sub-regulation shall cease to carry on rating activity.” 
12 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30-05-2018. Prior 
to its substitution, it read as “a foreign credit rating agency recognised by or under any law for the time being 
in force in the country of its incorporation, having at least five years experience in rating securities;” 
 

Page 5 of 36 

 

 

 

 

 

Eligibility criteria 

5. The Board shall not consider an application for the grant of a certificate under 

regulation 3, unless the applicant satisfies the following conditions, namely: 

(a) the applicant is set up and registered as a company under the Companies 

Act, 1956; 

(b) the  applicant  has,  in  its  Memorandum  of  Association,  specified  rating 

activity as one of its main objects; 

(c) 13[the applicant has a minimum net worth of rupees twenty five crore;]  

(d) the applicant  has  adequate  infrastructure,  to  enable  it  to  provide  rating 

services   in   accordance   with   the   provisions   of   the   Act   and   these 

regulations; 

(e) the applicant and the promoters of the applicant, referred to in regulation 4 

have  professional    competence,    financial    soundness    and    general 

reputation  of  fairness  and  integrity  in  business  transactions,  to  the 

satisfaction of the Board; 

(f)  neither the applicant, nor its promoter, nor any director of the applicant or 

its  promoter,  is  involved  in  any  legal  proceeding  connected  with  the 

securities  market,  which  may  have  an  adverse  impact  on  the  interests  of 

the investors; 

(g) neither  the  applicant,  nor  its  promoters,  nor  any  director,  of  its  promoter 

has at any time in the past been convicted of any offence involving moral 

turpitude or any economic offence; 

(h) the    applicant    has,    in    its    employment,    persons    having    adequate 

professional and other relevant experience to the satisfaction of the Board; 

(i)  neither  the  applicant,  nor  any  person  directly  or  indirectly  connected  with 

the applicant has in the past been – 

(i) refused by the Board a certificate under these regulations or 

 

13 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30-05-2018. Prior 
to its substitution, it read as under: 
“the applicant has a minimum net worth of rupees five crores. 
 Provided that a  credit rating agency existing at the commencement of these regulations, with a net worth of 
less than rupees five crores, shall be deemed to have satisfied this condition, if it increases its net worth to the 
said minimum within a period of three years of such commencement.” 
 
 

Page 6 of 36 

 

 

 
 

 

 

(ii)  subjected  to  any  proceedings  for  a  contravention  of  the  Act  or  of  any 

rules or regulations made under the Act. 

Explanation.─  For  the  purpose  of  this  clause,  the  expression  "directly 

or  indirectly  connected  person"  means  any  person  who  is  an  associate, 

subsidiary,  inter-connected  or  group  company  of  the  applicant  or  a 

company under the same management as the applicant. 

(j)  the applicant, in all other respects, is a fit and proper person for the grant 

of a certificate; 

(k) grant  of  certificate  to  the  applicant  is  in  the  interest  of  investors  and  the 

securities market; 

14[(l)  the  promoter  of  the  credit  rating  agency,  in  terms  of  regulation  4,  has  a 

minimum shareholding of 26% in the credit rating agency.] 

 

15[Criteria  for  Fit  and  Proper  Person)  Regulations, 
2004. 

5A.  For  the  purpose  of  determining  whether  an  applicant  or  the  credit  rating 

agency  is  a  fit  and  proper  person  the  Board  may  take  into  account  the  criteria 

specified  in  Schedule  II  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

(Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.] 

 

 

Application to conform to the requirements 

6.  Any  application  for a  certificate, which  is  not  complete  in  all  respects  or  does 

not conform to the requirement of regulation 5 or instructions specified in Form A 

shall be rejected by the Board: 

Provided  that,  before  rejecting  any  such  application,  the  applicant  shall  be 

 

14 Inserted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30-05-2018. 
15  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries)  Regulations,  2008,  w.e.f.  26.05.2008.  Prior  to  its  substitution, 
regulation  5A  as  inserted  by  the  SEBI  India  (Criteria  for  Fit  and  Proper  Person) Regulations, 2004, w.e.f. 
10.03.2004, read as under: 

“5A.  Applicability  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Criteria  for  Fit  and  Proper  Person) 
Regulations,  2004.─The  provisions  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Criteria  for  Fit  and 
Proper  Person)  Regulations,  2004  shall,  as  far  as  may  be,  apply  to  all  applicants  or  the  credit  rating 
agencies under these regulations.” 
 

Page 7 of 36 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

given  an  opportunity  to  remove,  within  thirty  days  of  the  date  of  receipt  of 

relevant communication, from the Board such objections as may be indicated by 

the Board. 

Provided  further,  that  the  Board  may,  on  sufficient  reason  being  shown, 

extend  the  time  for  removal  of  objections  by  such  further  time,  not  exceeding 

thirty days, as the Board may consider fit to enable the applicant to remove such 

objections. 

Furnishing of information, clarification and personal representation 

7.  (1) The Board may require the applicant  to furnish such further information or 

clarification as the Board may consider necessary, for the purpose of processing 

of the application. 

(2)  The  Board,  if  it  so  desires,  may  ask  the  applicant  or  its  authorised 

representative  to  appear  before  the  Board,  for  personal  representation  in 

connection with the grant of a certificate. 

16[8. Grant of certificate of 17[***] registration. 

(1)  The  Board,  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant  is  eligible,  shall  grant  a 

certificate  of  18[***]  registration  in  Form  B  and  shall  send  an  intimation  to  the 

applicant. 

19[(2) The certificate of registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid 

unless it is suspended or cancelled by the Board.] 

 

16 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. Prior 
to its substitution, regulation 8 read as under: 
“Grant of Certificate 
8. (1) The Board, on being satisfied that the applicant is eligible for the grant of a certificate of registration, 
shall grant a certificate in Form ‘B’. 
(2) The grant of certificate of  registration shall be subject to the payment of the registration fee specified in 
Part A of the Second Schedule, in the manner prescribed in Part B thereof.” 
17 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
18 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
19  Substituted  bye  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of 
Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  substitution  sub-
regulation (2) read as under: 
 

Page 8 of 36 

 

 

20[(3)  The  credit  rating  agency  who  has  already  been  granted  certificate  of 

registration by the Board, prior to the commencement of the Securities and 

Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  in  Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain 

Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  shall  be  deemed  to  have 

been granted a certificate of registration, in terms of sub-regulation (1).] 

 

 

 

 

 

(4)  The  grant  of  a  certificate  of  21[***] registration  shall  be  subject  to  payment of 

the  registration  fees  as  specified  under  Part  A  of  Second  Schedule,  in  the 

manner prescribed in Part B thereof.] 

 
8A 22[***] 

India 

 
“(2) The certificate of initial registration granted under sub-regulation (1) shall be valid for a period of five 
years from the date of its issue to the applicant.” 
20  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of 
Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  substitution  sub-
regulation (3) read as under: 
“(3) The credit rating agency who has already been granted a certificate of registration by the Board, prior to 
the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
(Credit  Rating  Agencies) 
(Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  and  has  not  completed  a  period  of  three  years,  shall  be  deemed  to  have 
been  granted  a  certificate  of  initial  registration  for  a  period  of  five  years  from  the  date  of  its  certificate  of 
registration, subject to payment of fee for the remaining period  of  two  years,  as  specified  under  Part  A 
of  Second  Schedule,  in  the manner prescribed in Part B thereof.” 
21  The  word  “initial”  omitted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.  
22 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
Prior to omission regulation 8A, as inserted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011 read as under: 
“8A. Grant of certificate of permanent registration. 
(1)  The  credit  rating  agency  who  has  been  granted  or  deemed  to  have  been  granted  a  certificate  of  initial 
registration  under  regulation  8,  may,  three  months  before  the  expiry  of  the  period  of  certificate  of  initial 
registration, make an application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration in Form A. 
(2) The credit rating agency who has already been granted a certificate of registration by the Board and has 
completed  a  period  of  five  years,  on  the  date  of  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  may,  three  months  before  the  expiry  of 
validity  of  certificate  of  registration  or  before,  make  an  application  for  grant  of  a  certificate  of  permanent 
registration in Form A. 
(3)  An  application  under  sub-regulation  (1)  or  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  be  accompanied  by  non-refundable 
application fee as specified in the Second Schedule. 
(4) The application for grant of a certificate of permanent registration shall be accompanied by details of the 
changes  that  have  taken  place  in  the  information  that  was  submitted  to  the  Board  while  seeking  initial 
registration  or  renewal,  as  the  case  may  be,  and  a  declaration  stating  that  no  changes  other  than  those  as 
mentioned in such details have taken place. 
(5)  The  application  for  permanent  registration  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  or (2)  shall  be  dealt  with  in 
the  same  manner  as  if  it  were  a  fresh  application  for grant of a certificate of initial registration. 
(6)  The  Board,  on  being  satisfied  that  the  applicant  is  eligible,  shall  grant  a  certificate  of  permanent 
registration in Form B and shall send an intimation to the applicant. 
(7) On the grant of a certificate of permanent registration the credit rating agency shall be liable to pay the fee 
 

Page 9 of 36 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Conditions of certificate 
9.  24[***]  The  certificate  granted  under  regulation  8  25[or  8A]  shall  be,  subject  to 

[***] 

23

the following conditions, namely: 

(a)  the  credit  rating  agency  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of  the  Act,  the 

regulations made there under  and the guidelines, directives, circulars and 

instructions issued by the Board from time to time on the subject of credit 

rating. 

(b) 26[***]  where  any  information  or  particulars  furnished  to  the  Board  by  a 

credit rating agency: 

(i)  is found to be false or misleading in any material particular ; or 

(ii)  has undergone change subsequently to its furnishing at the time of the 

application for a certificate; 

the credit rating agency shall forthwith inform the Board in writing 27[;] 

28[***] 

29[(c)  where  the  credit  rating  agency  proposes  30[change  in  control],  it  shall 

obtain  prior  approval  of  the  Board  for  continuing  to  act  as  such  after  the 

change.] 

31[(d) the credit rating agency shall at all times maintain a minimum net worth of 

rupees twenty five crore.  

Provided  that  a  credit  rating  agency  already  registered  with  the  Board 

 

as specified in the Second Schedule of these regulations.” 
23 The words “and validity period” omitted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011 
24 Numbering of sub-regulation (1) omitted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011 
25  The  words  “or  8A”  omitted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016.  Prior to this the 
words  “or  8A”  were  inserted  by the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating Agencies)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011  w.e.f. 
05.07.2011 
26 Numbering of sub-regulation omitted, Ibid. 
27 Substituted for “.” , Ibid. 
28 Omitted, Ibid. Prior to its omission, sub-clause (2), read as under: 
“(2) the period of validity of certificate of registration shall be three years;” 
29 Inserted   by   the   SEBI   (Credit   Rating   Agencies)   (Amendment)   Regulations,   2010,   w.e.f. 
19.03.2010. 
30 Substituted  for  “to  change  its  status  or  constitution”  by  the  SEBI  (Change  in  Conditions  of 
Registration of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011, w.e.f 13.04.2011. 
31 Clauses (d)(e) and (f) inserted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 
30-05-2018 
 

Page 10 of 36 

 

under  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Credit  Rating  Agencies) 

Regulations, 1999,  having  a  net  worth  less  than  rupees  twenty  five  crores, 

shall, increase its net worth to the specified amount within a period of three 

years from the date of notification of the Securities and Exchange Board of 

India (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018. 

(e)  the  promoter  of  the  credit  rating  agency,  in  terms  of  regulation  4,  shall 

maintain  a  minimum  shareholding  of  26%  in  the  credit  rating  agency  for  a 

minimum period of three years from the date of grant of registration by the 

Board. 

Provided that this clause shall not be applicable to a credit rating agency 

already registered with the Board under Securities and Exchange Board of 

India (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999, at the commencement of 

Securities 

and 

Exchange 

Board 

of 

India 

(Credit  Rating 

Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018. 

32[(f) a credit rating agency shall not carry out any activity other than the rating of 

securities offered by way of public or rights issue. 

Nothing  contained  in  these  regulations  shall  preclude  a  credit  rating 

agency from rating of financial instruments under the respective guidelines of 

a financial sector regulator or any authority as may be specified by the Board: 

Provided that all other activities shall be segregated to  a separate entity 

within  a  period  of  two  years  from  the  date  of  notification  of  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 

2018.]] 

 

10. 33[***] 

 

32  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)(Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2018  w.e.f. 
11.09.2018. Prior to this, clause (f) read as: 
“(f) a credit rating agency shall not carry out any activity other than the rating of securities offered by way of 
public or rights issue. 
Provided that nothing in these regulations shall prohibit a credit rating agency from engaging in any other 
activity in so far as it may be required by a financial sector regulator as defined under section 3(18) of the 
Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. 
Provided  further  that if  a  credit  rating  agency  is carrying  out  activities  other  than the  activity  required  by  a 
financial  sector  regulator,  such activity  shall  be  segregated to a  separate  entity  within a period of two  years 
from 
(Credit  Rating 
Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018” 
33  Regulation  10  omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011  w.e.f. 
 

the  date  of  notification  of  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 

India 

Page 11 of 36 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Procedure where certificate is not granted 

 
11.   34[(1) If, after considering an application made under regulation 3, the Board 

is  of  the  opinion  that  a  certificate  of  registration  should  not  be  granted,  it  may, 

after  giving  the  applicant  a  reasonable  opportunity  of  being  heard,  reject  the 

application.] 

(2)  The  decision  of  the  Board,  not  to  grant  35[certificate  of  initial  or  permanent 

registration,   as   the   case   may   be,]   under   sub-regulation   (1)   shall   be 

communicated by the Board to the applicant within a period of thirty days of such 

decision, stating the grounds of the decision. 

(3) Any applicant aggrieved by the decision of the Board rejecting his application 

under  sub-regulation  (1)  may,  within  a  period  of  thirty  days  from  the  date  of 

receipt by him of the communication referred to in sub-regulation (2) apply to the 

Board in writing for reconsideration of such decision. 

(4)  Where  an  application  for  re-consideration  is  made  under  sub-regulation  (3) 

05.07.2011. Prior to its omission, regulation 10 read as under: 
“Renewal of certificate 
10. (1) A credit rating agency, if it desires renewal of the certificate granted to it, shall make to the 
Board an application for the renewal of the certificate of registration. 
18

[(1A)  An  application  for  renewal  of  certificate  of  registration  made  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  be 

 

as far as may be, shall be dealt with in the same manner as if it were an application for the grant of 

accompanied by a non-refundable application fee as specified in the Second Schedule.] 
(2) Such application shall be made not less than three months before expiry of the period of 
validity of the certificate, specified in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 9. (3) The application for renewal made 
under sub-regulation (1)– 
(a)         shall be accompanied by a renewal fee as specified in the second schedule and 
(b) 
a fresh certificate under regulation 3.” 
34  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of 
Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  substitution  it  read  as 
under: 
“(1)   If,   after   considering   an   application   made   under   regulation   3   or 34[regulation 8A] as the case 
may  be,  the  Board  is  of  the  opinion  that  a  certificate  34[of  initial  or  permanent  registration  should  not  be 
granted], as the case may be, it may, after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity of being heard, reject 
the application.” 
Also the words “regulation 8A” substituted the words “regulation 10”; and the words “of initial or permanent 
registration should not be granted” substituted the words ““should not be granted or renewed” substituted” by 
the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011 
35  Substituted  for  the  words  “or  not  to  renew  the  certificate”  by  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. 
 

Page 12 of 36 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

the  Board  shall  consider  the  application  and  communicate  to  the  applicant  its 

decision in writing, as soon as may be. 

 
12. 36[***]  

CHAPTER III 

GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF CREDIT RATING AGENCIES 

Code of Conduct 

13.  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  abide  by  the  Code  of  Conduct  contained  in 

the Third Schedule. 

Agreement with the client 

14.  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  enter  into  a  written  agreement  with  each 

client  whose  securities  it  proposes  to  rate,  and  every  such  agreement  shall 

include the following provisions, namely:- 

 

36 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain 
Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  omission  regulation  12  read  as 
under: 
“Effect of refusal to grant certificate 
12.  (1)  36[  A  credit  rating  agency  whose  application  for  grant  of  a  certificate  of permanent  registration 
has  been  refused  by  the  Board,  on  and  from  the  date  of  the  receipt  of  the  communication,  shall  cease  to 
undertake  any credit rating  activity.]  36[(2)  The decision  of the Board,  not to grant certificate  of  registration 
under sub-regulation (1) shall be communicated by the Board to the applicant within a period of thirty days of 
such decision, stating the grounds of the decision.] 
(3)  If  the  Board  is  satisfied  that  it  is  in  the  interest of the  investors, it  may  permit the  credit  rating  agency 
referred  to  under  sub-regulation  (1)  or  (2)  to  complete the  rating assignments  already entered  into  by  it, 
during the pendency of the application or period of validity of the certificate. 
(4) The Board may, in order to protect the interests of investors, issue directions with regard to the transfer of 
records,  documents  or  reports  relating  to  the  activities  of  a  credit  rating  agency,  whose  application  for  the 
grant 36[of a certificate of permanent registration] has been rejected. 
(5)  The  Board  may,  in  order  to  protect  the  interests  of  investors,  appoint  any  person  to  take  charge  of  the 
records, documents or reports relating to the rating activities  of  a  credit  rating  agency  referred  to  in  sub-
regulation  (4)  and  for  this purpose also determine the terms and conditions of such appointment.” 
 
Also, prior to omission as the above, sub-regulation (1) was substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) 
(Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. Prior to its substitution, sub-regulation (1) read as under: 
“An applicant referred to in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 11 whose application for the grant of a certificate 
has been rejected under regulation 11, shall not undertake any rating activity.” 
 
And, sub-regulation (2) was substituted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions 
Of  Registration  Of  Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to 
substitution it read as under: 
“(2)  An   applicant   referred   to   in   sub-regulation   (2)   of   regulation   3,   whose application for the grant 
of a certificate has been rejected by the Board under regulation 11, shall, on and from the date of the receipt 
of the communication under sub-regulation (2) of regulation 11, cease to carry on any rating activity.” 
 
 

Page 13 of 36 

 

 

 

(a) the  rights  and  liabilities  of  each  party  in  respect  of  the  rating  of  securities 

shall be defined; 

(b) the fee to be charged by the credit rating agency shall be specified; 

(c)  37[the  client  shall  co-operate  with  the  credit  rating  agency  in  order  to 

enable  the  latter  to  carry  out  periodic  review  of  the  rating  during  the 

tenure of the rated instrument;] 

(d)  the  client  shall  38[**]  co-operate  with  the  credit  rating  agency  in  order  to 

enable  the  latter  to  arrive  at,  and  maintain,  a  true  and  accurate  rating  of 

the  clients  securities  and  shall  in  particular  provide  to  the  latter,  true, 

adequate and timely information for the purpose. 

(e) the  credit  rating  agency  shall  disclose  to the  client  the  rating  assigned  to 

the  securities  of  the  latter  through  regular  methods  of  dissemination, 

irrespective of whether the rating is or is not accepted by the client; 

(f) The client shall 39[**] disclose, in the offer document;- 

(i)  the  rating  assigned  to  the  client’s  listed  securities  by  any  credit  rating 

agency during the last three years and 

(ii) any rating given in respect of the client’s securities by any other credit 

rating agency, which has not been accepted by the client. 

40[(g)  the  client  shall  41[**]  obtain  a  rating  for  any  issue  of  debt  securities  in 

accordance with the relevant regulations.] 

42[(h)  The  client  shall  provide  explicit  consent  to  the  credit  rating  agency  to 

obtain  the  details  related  to  their  existing  and/or  future  borrowing  of  any 

 

37 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 23.09.2019. Prior 
to its substitution the clause read as under: 
“(c) the client shall agree to a periodic review of the rating by the credit rating agency during the tenure of the 
rated instrument.” 
38 The words “agree to” omitted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 
23.09.2019. 
39 The words “agree to” omitted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 
23.09.2019. 
40  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulations,  2011,  w.e.f 
27.12.2011. Prior to its substitution the clause read as under: 
“(g) the client  shall agree  to  obtain a  rating  from  at  least two  different  rating  agencies  for any  issue  of  debt 
securities whose size is equal to or exceeds, rupees one hundred crores.” 
41 The words “agree to” omitted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 
23.09.2019. 
42 Inserted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2019, w.e.f 23.09.2019. 
 
 

Page 14 of 36 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

nature,  its  repayment  and  delay  or  default,  if  any,  of  any  nature,  in 

servicing  of 

the  borrowing,  either 

from 

the 

lender  or  any  other 

statutory/non-statutory  organization  maintaining  any  such  information  to 

enable the credit rating agency to have timely information on the same and 

to  consider  the  impact  of  such  information  on  the  rating  assigned  by  the 

credit rating agency.] 

Monitoring of ratings 

15. 43[(1) Every credit rating agency shall, during the lifetime of securities rated by 

it  continuously  monitor  the  rating  of  such  securities,  unless  the  rating  is 

withdrawn, subject to the provisions of regulation 16(3).] 

(2)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  disseminate  information  regarding  newly 

assigned  ratings,  and  changes  in  earlier  rating  promptly  through  press  releases 

and  websites,  and,  in  the  case  of  securities  issued  by  listed  companies,  such 

information shall also be provided simultaneously to the concerned regional stock 

exchange and to all the stock exchanges where the said securities are listed. 

Procedure for review of rating 

16.  44[(1)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  carry  out  periodic  reviews  of  all 

published  ratings  during  the  lifetime  of  the  securities,  unless  the  rating  is 

withdrawn, subject to the provisions of regulation 16(3).] 

45[(2)  If  the  client  does  not  co-operate  with  the  credit  rating  agency  so  as  to 

enable the credit rating agency to comply with its obligations under regulation 15 

of  these  regulations,  the  credit  rating  agency  shall  carry  out  the  review  on  the 

 

43 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30-05-2018. Prior 
to the substitution, it read as “(1) Every credit rating agency shall, during the lifetime of securities rated by it 
continuously monitor the rating of such securities.” 
44 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30-05-2018. Prior 
to the substitution, it read as “(1) Every credit rating agency shall carry out periodic reviews of all published 
ratings during the lifetime of the securities.” 
45 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30-05-2018. Prior 
to the substitution, it read as “(2) If the client does not co-operate with the credit rating agency so as to enable 
the credit rating agency to comply with its obligations under regulation 15 of this regulation, the credit rating 
agency shall carry out the review on the basis of the best available information  

Provided  that  if  owing  to  such  lack  of  co-operation,  a  rating  has  been  based  on  the  best  available 

information, the credit rating agency shall disclose to the investors the fact that the rating is so based.” 
 

Page 15 of 36 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

basis of the best available information or in the manner as specified by the Board 

from time to time. 

Provided  that  if  owing  to  such  lack  of  co-operation,  a  rating  has  been  based 

on  the  best  available  information,  the  credit  rating  agency  shall  disclose  to  the 

investors the fact that the rating is so based.] 

46[(3) A credit rating agency shall not withdraw a rating so long as the obligations 

under the security rated by it are outstanding, except where the company whose 

security is rated is wound up or merged or amalgamated with another company, 

or as may be specified by the Board from time to time.] 

 

Internal procedures to be framed 

17.  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  frame  appropriate  procedures  and  systems 

for  monitoring  the  trading  of  securities  by  its  employees  in  the  securities  of  its 

clients, in order to prevent contravention of – 

(a) the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Insider Trading) Regulations, 

1992; 

(b) the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and 

Unfair Trade  Practices  relating  to  the  Securities  Market)  Regulations, 

1995; and 

(c) other laws relevant to trading of securities. 

Disclosure of Rating Definitions and Rationale 

18. (1) Every credit rating agency – 

(a)  shall  make  public  the  definitions  of  the  concerned  rating,  along  with  the 

symbol and, 

(b) shall also state that the ratings do not constitute recommendations to buy, 

hold or sell any securities. 

(2)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  make  available  to  the  general  public 

information  relating  to  the  rationale  of  the  ratings,  which  shall  cover  an  analysis 

 

46 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies)(Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30-05-2018. Prior 
to the substitution, it read as “(3) A credit rating agency shall not withdraw a rating so long as the obligations 
under the security rated by it are outstanding, except where the company whose security is rated is wound up 
or merged or amalgamated with another company.” 
 

Page 16 of 36 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

of  the  various  factors  justifying  a  favourable  assessment,  as  well  as  factors 

constituting a risk. 

Submission of information to the Board 

19.  (1)  Where  any  information  is  called  for  by  the  Board  from  a  credit  rating 

agency  for  the  purposes  of  these  regulations,  including  any  report  relating  to  its 

activities, the credit rating agency shall furnish such information to the Board – 

(a) within a period specified by the Board or 

(b) if no such period is specified, then within a reasonable time. 

(2)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall,  at  the  close  of  each  accounting  period, 

furnish to the Board copies of its balance sheet and profit and loss account. 

Compliance with circulars etc., issued by the Board 

20.  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  comply  with  such  guidelines,  directives, 

circulars  and  instructions  as  may  be  issued  by  the  Board  from  time  to  time,  on 

the subject of credit rating. 

47[20A. Appointment of Compliance Officer 

(1)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  appoint  a  compliance  officer  who  shall  be 

responsible  for  monitoring  the  compliance  of  the  Act,  rules  and  regulations, 

notifications,  guidelines,  instructions  etc.  issued  by  the  Board  or  the  Central 

Government. 

(2)  The  compliance  officer  shall  immediately  and  independently  report  to  the 

Board any non-compliance observed by him.] 

Maintenance of Books of Accounts records, etc. 

21.  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  keep  and  maintain,  for a  minimum  period of 

five years, the following books of accounts, records and documents, namely: 

(a) copy of its balance sheet, as on the end of each accounting period; 

(b) a copy of its profit and loss account for each accounting period; 

(c) a copy of the auditor’s report on its accounts for each accounting period. 

47  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Investment  Advice  by  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2001,  w.e.f. 
29.05.2001. 
 

Page 17 of 36 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

(d) a copy of the agreement entered into, with each client; 

(e) information supplied by each of the clients; 

(f)  correspondence with each client; 

(g) ratings  assigned  to  various  securities  including  upgradation  and  down 

gradation (if any) of the ratings so assigned. 

(h) rating notes considered by the rating committee; 

(i)  record of decisions of the rating committee; 

(i)  letter assigning rating; 

(k) particulars of fees charged for rating and such other records as the Board 

may specify from time to time. 

(2)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  intimate  to  the  Board  the  place  where  the 

books of account, records and documents required to be maintained under these 

regulations are being maintained. 

 

 

Steps on auditor’s report 

22.  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall,  within  two  month’s  from  the  date  of  the 

auditor’s  report,  take  steps  to  rectify  the  deficiencies  if  any,  made  out  in  the 

auditor’s report, insofar as they relate to the activity of rating of securities. 

 
 
Confidentiality 

23. Every credit rating agency shall treat, as confidential, information supplied to 

it  by  the  client  and  no  credit  rating  agency  shall  disclose  the  same  to  any  other 

person,  except  where  such  disclosure  is  required  or  permitted  by  under  or  any 

law for the time being in force. 

Rating process 

24. (1) Every credit rating agency shall – 

(a) specify the rating process; 

(b) file a copy of the same with the Board for record; and file with the Board 

any modifications or additions made therein from time to time. 

Page 18 of 36 

 

 

 

(2) Every credit rating agency shall, in all cases, follow a proper rating process. 

(3)  Every  credit  rating  agency  shall  have  professional  rating  committees, 

comprising members  who  are  adequately qualified  and  knowledgeable  to  assign 

a rating. 

(4) All rating decisions, including the decisions regarding changes in rating, shall 

be taken by the rating committee. 

(5) Every credit rating agency shall be staffed by analysts qualified to carry out a 

rating assignment. 

(6)   Every   credit   rating   agency   shall   inform   the   Board   about   new   rating 

instruments or symbols introduced by it. 

(7)  Every  credit  rating  agency,  shall,  while  rating  a  security,  exercise  due 

diligence in order to ensure that the rating given by the credit rating agency is fair 

and appropriate. 

(8) A credit rating agency shall not rate securities issued by it. 

(9) Rating definition, as well as the structure for a particular rating product, shall 

not be changed by a credit rating agency, without prior information to the Board. 

(10)  A  credit rating  agency  shall  disclose  to  the  concerned  stock  exchange 

through press release and websites for general investors, the rating assigned to 

the securities of a client, after periodic review, including changes in rating, if any. 

 

 

48[Shareholding in a credit rating agency 

24A. (1) A credit rating agency shall not:  

(a) directly or indirectly, hold 10 per cent or more shareholding and/ or voting 

rights in any other credit rating agency, or 

(b) have representation on the Board of any other credit rating agency. 

Provided that a credit rating agency may, with the prior approval of the Board, 

acquire  shares  and/  or  voting  rights  exceeding  10  per  cent  in  any  other  credit 

rating  agency  only  if  such  acquisition  results  in  change  in  control  in  the  credit 

rating  agency  whose  shares  are  being  acquired.  On  the  basis  of  the  prior 

approval  sought  by  the  acquirer,  the  Board  may  approve  the  acquisition  in  the 

48 Inserted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, w.e.f. 30-05-2018. 
 

Page 19 of 36 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 

 

interest of investors, market integrity and stability. 

 

(2)  A  shareholder  holding  10  per  cent  or  more  shares  and/  or  voting  rights  in  a 

credit  rating  agency  shall  not  hold  10  per  cent  or  more  shares  and/  or  voting 

rights, directly or indirectly, in any other credit rating agency.  

Provided that the said restriction shall not apply to holdings by Pension Funds, 

Insurance Schemes and Mutual Fund Schemes. 

Explanation.- For the purpose of this regulation, a “credit rating agency” means 

a credit rating agency registered with the Board.] 

 

CHAPTER IV 

RESTRICTION ON RATING OF SECURITIES ISSUED BY PROMOTERS OR 

BY CERTAIN OTHER PERSONS 

Definitions 

25. In this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires;- 

(a) "associate" , in relation to a promoter, includes a body corporate in which 

the promoter holds ten percent or more, of the share capital; 

(b) "promoter" means a person who holds ten percent or more, of the shares 

of the credit rating agency. 

Securities issued by promoter 

26. (1) No credit rating agency shall rate a security issued by its promoter. 

(2)  In  case  promoter  is  a  lending  institution,  its  Chairman,  director  or  employee 

shall not be a Chairman, director or employee of credit rating agency or its rating 

committee. 

Provided  that  sub-regulation  (2)  shall  come  into  force  within  three  months 

from commencement of these regulations. 

Securities  issued  by  certain  entities,  connected  with  a  promoter,  or  rating 

agency not to be rated 

27. (1) No credit rating agency shall, rate a security issued by an entity, which is;- 

Page 20 of 36 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(a) a borrower of its promoter; or 

(b) a subsidiary of its promoter; or 

(c) an associate of its promoter, if 

(i)  there  are  common  Chairman,  Directors  between  credit  rating  agency 

and these entities. 

(ii)  there are common employees. 

(iii) there  are  common  Chairman,  Directors,  Employees  on  the  rating 

committee. 

(2)  No  credit  rating  agency  shall  rate  a  security  issued  by  its  associate  or 

subsidiary,  if  the  credit  rating  agency  or  its  rating  committee  has  a  Chairman, 

director  or  employee  who  is  also  a  Chairman,  director  or  employee  of any  such 

entity. 

49[Provided  that  the  Credit  Rating  Agency  may,  subject  to  the  provisions  of 

sub-regulation  (1),  rate  a  security  issued  by  its  associate  having  a  common 

independent director with it or rating committee if,- 

(i)  such  an  independent  director  does  not  participate  in  the  discussion  on 

rating decisions, and 

(ii) the Credit Rating Agency makes a disclosure in the rating announcement 

of  such  associate  (about  the  existence  of  common  independent  director) 

on its Board or of its rating committee, and that the common independent 

director  did  not  participate  in  the  rating  process  or  in  the  meeting  of  its 

Board  of  Directors  or  in  the  meeting  of  the  rating  committee,  when  the 

securities rating of such associate was discussed. 

 

Explanation.─(1)  For  the  purposes  of  this  sub-regulation  the  expression 

‘independent  director’  means  a  director  who,  apart  from  receiving  remuneration 

as  a  director,  does  not  have  any  other  material  pecuniary  relationship  or 

transactions with the company, its promoters, its management or its subsidiaries, 

which in the judgment of the board of the company, may affect the independence 

of the judgment of such director. 

 

49 Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2003,  w.e.f. 19.02.2003. 
 
 

Page 21 of 36 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Securities already rated 

28.  Nothing  in  this  Chapter  shall  apply  to  securities  whose  rating  has  been 

already  done  by  a  credit  rating  agency  before  the  commencement  of  these 

regulations,  and  such  securities  may,  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  other 

Chapters  of  these  regulations,  continue  to  be  rated,  without  the  need  to  comply 

with the restrictions imposed by the regulations contained in this chapter. 

CHAPTER V 

PROCEDURE FOR INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION 

Board’s right to inspect 

29.  (1)  The  Board  may  appoint  one  or  more  persons  as  inspecting  officers,  to 

undertake  inspection  or  investigation  of  the  books  of  account,  records  and 

documents of the credit rating agencies, for any of the purposes specified in sub- 

regulation (2). 

(2) The purposes referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be the following, namely: 

(a) to  ascertain  whether  the  books  of  account,  records  and  documents  are 

being maintained properly; 

(b)to  ascertain  whether  the  provisions  of  the  Act  and  these  regulations  are 

being complied with; 

(c) to investigate into complaints received from investors, clients or any other 

person  on  any  matter  having  a  bearing  on  activities  of  the  credit  rating 

agency; 

(d) in the interest of the securities market or in the interest of investors. 

(3)  The  inspections  ordered  by  the  Board  under  sub-regulation  (1)  shall  not 

ordinarily  go  into  an  examination  of  the  appropriateness  of  the  assigned  ratings 

on the merits. 

(4) Inspections to judge the appropriateness of the ratings may be ordered by the 

Board, only in case of complaints which are serious in nature. 

(5) Inspections referred to in sub-regulation (4) shall be carried out either by the 

Page 22 of 36 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

officers  of  the  Board  or  independent  experts,  with  relevant  experience  or 

combination of both. 

Notice before inspection or investigation 

30.  (1)  Before  ordering  an  inspection  or  investigation  under  regulation  29,  the 

Board shall give not less than ten days written notice to the credit rating agency 

for that purpose. 

(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  sub-regulation  (1)  where  the  Board  is 

satisfied  that  in  the  interest  of  the  investors,  no  such  notice  should  be  given,  it 

may, by an order in writing, direct that the inspection or investigation of the affairs 

of the credit rating agency be taken up without such notice. 

(3)  During  the  course  of  an  inspection  or  investigation,  the  credit  rating  agency 

against  whom  the  inspection  or  investigation is  being  carried  out  shall  be  bound 

to discharge all its obligations as provided in regulation 31. 

Obligations  of  credit  rating  agency  on  inspection  or  investigation  by  the 

Board 

31.  (1) It  shall  be the  duty of  every  credit  rating  agency  whose  affairs are  being 

inspected  or  investigated,  and  of  every  director,  officer  or  employee  thereof,  to 

Page 23 of 36 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

produce to the inspecting or investigating officer such books, accounts and other 

documents  in  its  or  his  custody  or  control  and  furnish  him  with  such  statements 

and  information  relating  to  its  rating  activities,  as  the  inspecting  officer  may 

require within such reasonable period as may be specified by the said officer. 

(2) The credit rating agency shall – 

(a) allow  the  inspecting  officer  to  have  reasonable  access  to  the  premises 

occupied by such credit rating agency or by any other person on its behalf; 

(b) extend  to  the  inspecting  officer  reasonable  facility  for  examining  any 

books,  records,  documents  and  computer  data  in  the  possession  of  the 

credit rating agency; and 

(c) provide copies of documents or other materials which, in the opinion of the 

inspecting  officer,  are  relevant  for  the  purposes  of  the  inspection  or 

investigation, as the case may be. 

(3)  The  inspecting  officer,  in  the  course  of  inspection  or  investigation,  shall  be 

entitled to examine, or record the statements, of any officer, director or employee 

of  the  credit  rating  agency  for  the  purposes  connected  with  the  inspection  or 

investigation. 

(4) Every director, officer or employee of the credit rating agency shall be bound 

to render to the inspecting officer all assistance in connection with the inspection 

or investigation which the inspecting officer may reasonably require. 

Submission of Report to the Board 

32.  The  inspecting  officer  shall,  as  soon  as  possible,  on  completion  of  the 

inspection or investigation, submit a report to the Board. 

Provided that if directed to do so by the Board, he may submit an interim 

report. 

 

 

 
 
 

Page 24 of 36 

 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 

50[Action on inspection or investigation report 
 

33.  The  Board  or  the  Chairman  shall  after  consideration  of  inspection  or 

investigation report take such action as the Board or Chairman may deem fit and 

appropriate  including  action  under  51[Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange 

Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.] 

 

CHAPTER VI 

PROCEDURE FOR ACTION IN CASE OF DEFAULT 

52[Liability for action in case of default 

34.  A  credit  rating  agency  which  contravenes  any  of  the  provisions  of  the  Act, 

Rules,  or  Regulations  framed  thereunder  shall  be  liable  for one  or  more  actions 

specified  therein  including  the  action  under  Chapter  V  of  the  Securities  and 

Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008.] 

35. to 42. 53[***] 

 

50  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  officer  and  Imposing  Penalty) 
Regulation,  2002  w.e.f.  27-9-2002.  Prior  to  its  substitution,  regulation  33  read  as under: 

“33.  Communication  of  Findings  etc.  to  the  Credit  Rating  Agency.─(1)  The  Board  shall,  after 
consideration  of  the  inspection  report  or  the  interim  report  referred  to  in  regulation  32,  communicate  the 
findings  of  the  inspecting  officer  to  the  credit  rating  agency  and  give  it  a  reasonable  opportunity  of  being 
heard in the matter. 
(2)  On  receipt  of the  explanation,  if any,  from  the credit  rating  agency,  the Board may  call  upon the  credit 
rating agency to take such measures as the Board may deem fit in the interest of the securities market and for 
due compliance with the provisions of the Act and these regulations.” 
51 Substituted  for  “the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Procedure  for  Holding 
Enquiry  by  Enquiry  officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)  Regulations,  2002”  by  the  SEBI  (Intermediaries) 
Regulations, 2008, w.e.f. 26.05.2008 

52 Substituted,   ibid.   Prior   to   its   substitution,   regulation   34   as   amended   by   the   SEBI (Procedure  for 

Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  officer  and  Imposing  Penalty)  Regulation,  2002, 
w.e.f. 27.09.2002, read as under: 
“34. Liability for action in case of default.─(1) A credit rating agency which─ 
(a)  fails to comply with any condition subject to which a certificate has been granted; or 
(b)  contravenes  any   of   the  provisions   of  the  Act  or   these   regulations   or  any   other regulations made 
under the Act; 
shall  be  dealt  with in the manner provided  under  the  Securities and  Exchange  Board  of  India 
(Procedure for holding Enquiry by Enquiry officer and Imposing penalty) Regulations, 2002.” 

53  Regulation  35  to  42  omitted  by  the  SEBI  (Procedure  for  Holding  Enquiry  by  Enquiry  officer  and 

Imposing Penalty) Regulation, 2002, w.e.f. 27-9-2002. Prior to omission, regulations 
35 to 42 read as follows: 

:35. Suspension  of  registration.─A  penalty  of  suspension  of  the  certificate  of  registration of  a  credit 

rating  agency  may  be  imposed  by the Board, if  the  case  falls  under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 34. 
 

Page 25 of 36 

 

 
36. Cancellation of Registration.─(1) A penalty of cancellation of certificate of registration of a credit rating 
agency may be imposed by the Board, if: 
(a)  the credit  rating agency  is guilty  of  fraud, or  has  been convicted  of  an offence  involving 
moral turpitude or an economic offence; or 
(b) in case of repeated defaults of the  nature mentioned in sub-regulation (1) of regulation 34. (c) the credit 
rating agency is declared insolvent or wound up; 
(2) The Board shall furnish to the credit rating agency reasons in writing for cancellation of registration. 
37.  Manner  of  Making  Order  of  Suspension  and  Cancellation.─No  order  of  suspension  or  of 
cancellation of the certificate of registration, shall be passed by the Board, except after holding an enquiry in 
accordance with the procedure specified in regulation 38. 

Provided  that  the  holding  of  such  an  enquiry  shall  not  be  necessary  in  cases  where:  (a)  the  credit 

rating agency is declared insolvent or is wound up; or 
(b)  the  credit  rating  agency  fails  to  pay  to  the  Board  registration  fees  or  renewal  fee  as  per  these 
regulations. 

Provided  further  that  an  opportunity  of  hearing  shall  be  given  before  any  action  against  the credit 

rating agency is taken. 
38.  Manner  of  Holding  enquiry  before  Suspension  or  Cancellation.─(1)  For  the  purpose  of 
holding an enquiry under regulation 37, the Board may appoint one or more enquiry officers. 
(2) The enquiry officer shall issue to the credit rating agency a notice at the registered office or the  principal 
place  of  business  of  the  credit  rating  agency,  setting  out  the  grounds  on  which action is proposed to be 
taken against it and calling upon it to show cause against such action within a period of fourteen days from the 
date of receipt of such notice. 
(3) The credit rating agency, may, within fourteen days from the date of receipt of such notice, furnish to the 
enquiry  officer  a  written  reply,  together  with  copies  of  documentary  or  other  evidence  relied  on  by  it  or 
sought by the Board from the credit rating agency. 
(4)  The  enquiry  officer  shall  give  a  reasonable  opportunity  of  hearing  to  the  credit  rating agency,  to 
enable  it to make  its  submission in  support of its  reply made  under  sub-regulation (3). 
(5) Before the enquiry officer, the credit rating agency may either appear in person or through any person duly 
authorised on this behalf. 

Provided  that  no  lawyer  or advocate  shall  be  permitted  to represent the  credit  rating agency  at  the 

enquiry; 

Provided further that where a lawyer or an advocate has been appointed by the board as a presenting 

officer  under  sub-regulation  (6),  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  credit  rating  agency  to 
present his case through a lawyer or advocate. 
(6) If it is considered necessary, the enquiry officer may request the Board to appoint a presenting officer to 
present its case. 
(7) The  enquiry  officer  shall, after taking into account all  relevant  facts and  submissions made by the credit 
rating agency, submit a report to the Board and recommend the penalty, if any to 
be  imposed  upon  the  credit  rating  agency  as  also  the  grounds  on  the  basis  of  which  the 
proposed penalty is justified. 
39.  Show-cause  notice  and  order.─(1)  On  receipt  of  the  report  from  the  enquiry  officer,  the  Board  shall 
consider the same and issue a show-cause notice to the credit rating agency, as to why the penalty as proposed 
by the enquiry officer should not be imposed. 
(2) The credit rating agency shall, within fourteen days of the date of receipt of the show-cause 
notice, send a reply to the Board. 
(3) The Board, after considering the reply of the credit rating agency to the show-cause notice, shall as soon 
as possible pass such order as it deems fit. 
(4) Every order passed by the Board under sub-regulation (3) shall be self-contained and shall give  reasons 
for  the  conclusions  stated  therein,  including  justification  of  the  penalty  if  any 
imposed by that order. 
(5) The  Board  shall  send  to  the  credit  rating  agency  a  copy  of  the  order  passed  under  sub- regulation (3). 
40.  Effect  of  suspension  and  cancellation  of  registration  of  credit  rating  agency.─(1)  On  and  from the 
date of suspension of the certificate of registration, the credit rating agency shall cease 
to  carry  on  any  rating  activity  during  the  period  of  suspension  and  shall  be  subject  to  such 
directions of the Board with regard to any records, documents securities or reports that may be connected with 
in its rating activities, as the Board may specify. 
 

Page 26 of 36 

 

 

POWER TO RELAX STRICT ENFORCEMENT OF THE REGULATIONS 

54[CHAPTER VII 

Exemption from enforcement of the regulations in special cases. 

43. (1) The Board may, exempt any person or class of persons from the operation 

of all or any of the provisions of these regulations for a period as may be specified 

but not exceeding twelve months, for furthering innovation in technological aspects 

relating to testing new products, processes, services, business models, etc. in live 

environment of regulatory sandbox in the securities markets. 

 

(2) Any exemption granted by the  Board under sub-regulation (1) shall be subject 

to  the  applicant  satisfying  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  by  the  Board 

including conditions to be complied with on a continuous basis. 

 

Explanation. — For the purposes of these regulations, "regulatory sandbox" means 

a  live  testing  environment  where  new  products,  processes,  services,  business 

 

(2) On and from the date of cancellation of the certificate of registration, the credit rating agency shall: - 
(a) cease to carry in any rating activity and 
(b) shall be subject to such directions of the Board with regard to the transfer of records, documents, securities 
or reports connected with its rating activities which may be in its custody or control as the Board may specify. 
(3)  Notwithstanding  the  suspension  or  cancellation  of  certificate  of  a  credit  rating  agency,  if  the  Board  is 
satisfied that it is in the interest of the investors to grant such permission, the Board may grant to the credit 
rating  agency  permission  to  carry  on  such  activities  relating  its  assignments  undertaken  prior  to  such 
suspension or cancellation, as the Board may specify. 
41.   Publication   of   Order   of   Suspension   or   Cancellation.─The   order   of   suspension   or cancellation 
of  certificate  of  registration,  passed  under  sub-regulation  (3)  of  regulation  (39)  shall  be  published  by  the 
Board in at least two daily newspapers. 
42.  Appeal  to  the  Securities  Appellate  Tribunal.─Any  person  aggrieved  by  an  order  of  the  Board 
made,  on  and  after  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  Laws  (Second  Amendment) Act, 1999, (i.e., after 
16th December 1999), under these regulations may prefer an appeal to a Securities Appellate Tribunal having 
jurisdiction  in  the  matter.  [Prior  to  this,  regulation  42  as  amended  by  the  SEBI  (Appeal  to  Securities 
Appellate  Tribunal)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2000, w.e.f. 28.03.2000, it read as follows: 

42.  Appeal  to  the  Central  Government.─Any  person  aggrieved  by  an  order  of  the  Board under these 

Regulations; 
(a) Suspending a certificate of registration; (b) Cancelling certificate of registration, 
may  prefer  an  appeal  to  the  Central  Government  against  such  order,  in  accordance  with  the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Appeal to Central Government) Rules, 1993].” 
54 Inserted by the SEBI (Regulatory Sandbox) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, w.e.f. 17-04-2020. 

 

 

Page 27 of 36 

 

models, etc. may be deployed on a limited set of eligible customers for a specified 

period  of  time,  for  furthering  innovation  in  the  securities  market,  subject  to  such 

conditions as may be specified by the Board.] 

 

 

 

FIRST SCHEDULE 

FORM A 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(CREDIT RATING AGENCIES) REGULATIONS, 1999 

[55[REGULATION 3(3)]] 

56[APPLICATION FOR GRANT OF CERTIFICATE OF  

REGISTRATION] 

NAME OF APPLICANT 

CONTACT  NAME: 

TELEPHONE  NO: 

FAX NO: 

 
 

 

 

 

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING UP FORM - 

1.   Applicants  must  submit  to  the  Board  a  completed  application  form  together 

with  appropriate  supporting  documents.  Supporting  documents  should  be 

attested as true by a notary public. 

2.   This application form should be filled in accordance with the regulations. 

3.  Application  for  registration  will  be  considered,  only  if  it  is  complete  in  all 

respects. 

4.   All answers must be typed. 

 

55  Substituted  for  the  words  “Regulation  3(3)/Regulation  8A(3)”  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of 
India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of  Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016 
w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  this,  the  words  “Regulation  3(3)/Regulation  8A(3)”  was  substituted  for 
“Regulation 3(3)” by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. 
56  Substituted for the  words  “Application  for  Grant of  Certificate of  Initial/  Permanent  Registration”  by the 
Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of  Certain  Intermediaries) 
(Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  this,  the  words  “Application  for  Grant  of 
Certificate  of  Initial/  Permanent  Registration”  were  substituted  for  “APPLICATION  FOR  GRANT  OF 
CERTIFICATE  /  RENEWAL  OF  CERTIFICATE”  by  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. 
 

Page 28 of 36 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

5.  Information  which  needs  to  be  supplied  in  more  detail  may  be  given  on 

separate sheets which should be attached to the application form. 

6.   All signatures on the application must be original. 

7.   Every page of the form as well as every additional sheet must be initialed by 

the authorised signatory of the applicant. 

1.0 PARTICULARS OF THE APPLICANT 

1.1 Name,   address   of   the   registered   office,   address   for   correspondence, 

telephone  number(s),  fax  number(s)  and  name  of  the  contact  person  of  the 

company. Address of branch offices, if any. 

1.2 Date   of   incorporation   of   the   Applicant   company   (enclose   certificate   of 

incorporation  and  memorandum  and  articles  of  association).  Specify  the 

following: 

(a) Objects (Main & Ancillary) of the Applicant company 

(b) Authorised, issued, subscribed and paid up capital 

1.3 Category to which the Applicant company belongs to:] 

(a) Limited company - Private/Public. 

(b) Unlimited company. 

Page 29 of 36 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

If listed, names of Stock Exchanges and latest share price to be given. 

1.4 Category to which the Applicant company belongs to (refer regulation 3) 

(a) Company already in the business of undertaking rating activities 

(b) Company proposing to undertake rating activities for the first time. 

2.0 ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA 

2.1 Category  to which  the  promoter(s)  of  the Applicant  company  belong  to (refer 

regulation 4). 

2.2 Name the promoters and indicate their shareholding in the company. 

2.3 Enclose  a  Chartered  Accountant’s  certificate  certifying  the  continuous  net 

worth  of  Rs.100  crores  for  five  years,  in  case  the  promoter  referred  to  in 

regulation 4(e). 

2.4 Net  worth  of  the  company  as  per  the  last  audited  accounts  not  earlier  than 

three  months  from  the  date  of  application  [refer  regulation  5  (c)].  Enclose  a 

Chartered Accountant’s certificate certifying the same. 

3.0 PARTICULARS OF DIRECTORS/KEY PERSONNEL 

3.1 Particulars   of   Directors   of   the   company,   which   shall   include   name, 

qualification,  experience,  shareholding  in  the  company  and  directorship  in 

other companies. 

3.2 Particulars  of  Key  Personnel  of  the  company,  which  shall  include  name, 

designation in the company, qualification, previous positions held, experience, 

date of appointment in the company and functional areas. 

4.0 INFRASTRUCTURE 

4.1 Details  of  infrastructure  including  computing  facilities,  facilities  for  research 

and  database   available   with   the   company   and   whether   the   existing 

infrastructure  is  adequate  to  carry  on  the  rating  activities  proposed  to  be 

undertaken  by  the  company.  Any  further  plan  for  additional/  improved 

infrastructure to be indicated. 

Page 30 of 36 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.0 MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 

5.1 List  of  major  shareholders  (holding  5%  and  above  of  applicant  directly  or 

along with associates) 

Shareholding as on:   

 

Name of shareholder 

No. of Shares held 

 

 

6.0 ASSOCIATE CONCERNS 

%  age  of  total  paid  up 

capital of the company 

 

 

6.1 Particulars   of   associate   companies/concerns   which   shall   include   name, 

address, type of activity handled, nature of interest of the Applicant company 

in  the  associate,  nature  of  interest  of  promoter(s)  of  the  applicant  in  the 

associate. 

6.2 Whether  the  Board  has  granted/  refused  registration  as  credit  rating  agency 

to any associate of the applicant. Give the details like date of application, date 

of refusal/registration, reasons for refusal etc. 

7.0 BUSINESS INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 

7.1 History,  major  events  and  present  activities.  Details  of  Experience  in  Credit 

Rating activities and other related activities 

7.2 If  the  company  is  proposing  to  engage  in  credit  rating  activities  for  the  first 

time,  business  plan  of  the  company  with  projected  volume  of  activities  and 

income for which registration is sought to be specifically given. 

7.3 Securities  Rating  activities  handled  during  the  last  three  years  as  per  the 

table below: 

Name  of 

Client 

 

 

 

 

Type  of 

security 

Size   of 

issue 

 

 

Year  of 

Issue 

 

 

 

 

Security/Instrument 

listed/unlisted 

rated 

 

7.4 Details of other rating activities undertaken during last three years. 

Page 31 of 36 

 

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7.5 Any other information considered relevant to the nature of services rendered 

by the applicant. 

8.0 FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE APPLICANT 

8.1 Net worth 

Items 

(a) Paid-up capital 

(b) Free reserves 

(excluding 

revaluation 

reserves) 

Total (a) + (b) 

(c) Accumulated 

losses 

(d) Deferred 

revenue 

expenditure not 

written off. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Net worth (a)+(b)- 

 

(c)-(d) 

Year  prior  to  the  preceding 

year of the current year 

(Rs. In Lacs) 

Preceding 

year 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Current 

year 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8.2 Please  enclose  audited  annual  accounts  for  the  last  three  years.  Where 

unaudited  reports  are  submitted,  give  reasons. 

If  minimum  networth 

Page 32 of 36 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 

requirement   has   been   met   after   last   audited   annual   accounts,   audited 

statement of accounts of a later date also be submitted. 

8.3 Name and Address of the Principal bankers of the Applicant company. 

8.4 Name and address of the Auditors. 

9.0 OTHER INFORMATION 

9.1 Details of all pending litigations against the applicant company, directors and 

employees: 

Nature of dispute 

Name of the party 

Status 

9.2 Indictment or involvement in any fraud or economic offences by the applicant 

or any of its Directors, or key managerial Personnel, in the last three years. 

10.0 DECLARATION 

10.1 Give the following declarations signed by two directors: 

I/We hereby apply for registration. 

I/We  warrant  that  I/We  have  truthfully  and  fully  answered  the  questions 

above  and  provided  all  the  information  which  might  reasonably  be 

considered relevant for the purposes of my registration. 

I/We   declare   that   the   information   supplied   in   the   application   form   is 

complete and correct. 

For and on behalf of 

(Name of Applicant) 

Director 

Director 

Page 33 of 36 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 

 

Name in Block Letters 

Name in Block Letters 

Date 

Date 

FORM 

B 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(CREDIT RATING AGENCIES) REGULATIONS, 

1999 [57[REGULATION 8 (1)58[***] ]] 

[59[CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION]] 

I. 

In  exercise  of  the  powers  conferred  by  sub-section  (1)  of  section  12  of 

the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  Act,  1992,  read  with  the 

rules  and regulations made thereunder the Board hereby grants a certificate 

of registration  to                                                          as  a  credit  rating 

agency  in accordance with and subject to the conditions in the regulations to 

carry out the activity of the credit rating agency:- 

II.   Registration Code for the credit rating agency is CRA/ / / 
60[III. This certificate of registration shall be valid unless it is suspended or 
cancelled by the Board.] 

 

57  Substituted  for  “REGULATION  8(1)”  by  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  (Amendment)  Regulations, 
2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011 
58  The  words  “/Regulation  8A(6)”  omitted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In 
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
59 Substituted for the words “Certificate of Initial / Permanent Registration” by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 
2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  this  the  words  “”  substituted  the  words  “CERTIFICATE  OF 
REGISTRATION”,  by  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2011  w.e.f. 
05.07.2011. 
60  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of 
Certain  Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  the  substitution, 
paragraph III read as under: 
“III.  This  certificate  of  registration  shall  be  valid  from  …..  to  ….  /  for  permanent,  unless  suspended  or 
cancelled by the Board.” 
Prior  to  the  above,  paragraph  III  was  substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. Prior to its substitution, Paragraph III read as under: 
“This certificate shall be valid from   
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Credit Rating Agencies) Regulations, 1999.” 
 

and  may  be  renewed  as  specified  in  regulation  10  of 

to   

Page 34 of 36 

Place: 

Date 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

Order 

By 

Sd/- 

For and on behalf of 

Securities and Exchange Board of India 

SECOND SCHEDULE 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

(CREDIT RATING AGENCIES) REGULATIONS, 1999 

[61[See Regulations 3(3), 8(3), 8(4) 62[***] ]] FEES 

63[ PART A 

AMOUNT TO BE PAID AS FEES 

 

1. 

 

Application fee for grant of 

Rs.50,000 

64[***] registration 

2. 

65[***] Registration fee 

Rs. 26,66, 700 

 

61  Substituted  for  “REGULATIONS  3(3),  8(2), 10(3)”  by the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  (Amendment) 
Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011 
62  The  words  “8A(3)  and  8A(7)”  were  omitted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In 
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
63 Part A substituted, Ibid. Prior to its substitution, Part A as substituted by the SEBI (Credit 
Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2006, w.e.f. 07.09.2006 read as under: 

AMOUNT TO BE PAID AS FEES 

 

Application fee 

fee for grant of certificate 

 

  (Rs.)  

  50,000/-  Registration 

20,00,000/- Renewal fees

10,00,000/- 

” 
64 The words “initial or permanent” were omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In 
Conditions Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
 

Page 35 of 36 

 

 

3. 

66 [ ***  

 

***] 

4. 

67[Recurring] registration fee 
(for every three years) 

Rs.68[15,00,000] 

 

69[PART 

B 

1.  A  credit  rating  agency  who  has  been  granted  certificate  of  70[***]  registration 

under  regulation  8(1),   shall  pay  fees,  as  specified  under  item  2  of  Part 

A, within fifteen days from the date of receipt of intimation from the Board. 

2.  71[ * * * ]  

3.  72[A credit rating agency who has been granted certificate of registration, to 

keep its registration in force, shall pay fee as specified under item 4 of Part 

A, for every three years from the sixth year of the date of grant of  certificate 

 
65 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
66 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain 
Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission Item 3 read as under:  
“Balance fee for credit rating agencies referred under sub- regulation (3) of regulation 8 - Rs. 6,66,700” 

67 Substituted for the word “permanent” by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions 
Of Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
68  Substituted  for  figure  "10,00,000"  by  SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2014,  w.e.f. 
23.05.2014. 
69 Substituted by the SEBI (Credit Rating Agencies) (Amendment) Regulations, 2011 w.e.f. 05.07.2011. Prior 
to its substitution Part B read as under: 
“ The fees specified above shall be paid by way of a bank draft in favour of "Securities and Exchange Board 
of India" payable at Mumbai.” 
70 The word “initial” was omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of 
Registration Of Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. 
71 Omitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Change In Conditions Of Registration Of Certain 
Intermediaries)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2016  w.e.f.  08-12-2016.  Prior  to  omission  paragraph  2  read  as 
under: 
“(2)  A  credit  rating  agency  referred  to  under  sub-  regulation  (3)  of  regulation  8,  shall  pay  fee,  as 
specified  under  item  3  of  Part  A,  within  a  period  of  three  months  before  completion  of  the  period  of 
three  years  from the  date  of grant of certificate of initial registration, or within a period of three months from 
the date of notification of these regulations, as the case may be.” 
72  Substituted  by  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India  (Change  In  Conditions  Of  Registration  Of 
Certain Intermediaries) (Amendment) Regulations, 2016 w.e.f. 08-12-2016. Prior to omission paragraph 3 read 
as under: 
“(3) A credit rating agency who has been granted certificate of permanent registration, to keep its registration 
in force, shall pay fee as specified under item 4 of Part A, for every three years from the sixth year from the 
date  of  grant  of  certificate  of initial  registration,  or  from  completion of the  period  of  renewed  certificate  of 
registration, as the case may be.” 
 
 

Page 36 of 36 

 

 

 

of  registration  or  of  the  date  of  grant  of  certificate  of  initial  registration 

granted  prior  to  the  commencement  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board 

of  India  (Change  in  Conditions  of  Registration  of  Certain  Intermediaries) 

(Amendment) Regulations, 2016, as the case may be.]  

4.  The  fee  specified  above  shall  be  paid  73[ by way of direct credit in the bank 
account  through  NEFT/RTGS/IMPS  or  any  other  mode  allowed  by  RBI  or]  by 
way  of  a  bank  draft  in  favour  of  “Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India” 
payable at Mumbai.] 

 
 

74[THIRD 

SCHEDULE 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA 

CODE OF CONDUCT FOR CREDIT RATING 

AGENCIES [REGULATION 13] 

CODE OF 
CONDUCT 

1.  A  credit  rating  agency  shall  make  all  efforts  to  protect  the  interests  of 

investors. 

2.  A  credit  rating  agency,  in  the  conduct  of  its  business,  shall  observe  high 

standards of integrity, dignity and fairness in the conduct of its business. 

3.  A  credit  rating  agency  shall  fulfill  its  obligations  in  a  prompt,  ethical  and 

professional manner. 

4.   A credit rating agency shall at all times exercise due diligence, ensure proper 

care and exercise independent professional judgment in order to achieve and 

maintain objectivity and independence in the rating process. 

5.  A  credit  rating  agency  shall  have  a  reasonable  and  adequate  basis  for 

performing  rating  evaluations,  with  the  support  of  appropriate  and  in  depth 

rating researches. It shall also maintain records to support its decisions. 

6.  A  credit  rating  agency  shall  have  in  place  a  rating  process  that  reflects 

consistent and international rating standards. 

 

73  Inserted  by  the  SEBI  (Payment  of  Fees  and  Mode  of  Payment)  (Amendment)  Regulations,  2017,  w.e.f. 
6.3.2017 
74  Substituted  by  the  SEBI  (Credit  Rating  Agencies)  (Second  Amendment)  Regulation,  2003  w.e.f. 
01.10.2003.  Earlier  it  was  amended  by  the  SEBI  (Investment  Advise  by  Intermediaries)  (Amendment) 
Regulations 2001, w.e.f. 29.05.2001 
 

Page 37 of 36 

 

 

7.    A  credit  rating  agency  shall  not  indulge  in  any  unfair  competition  nor  shall  it 

wean  away  the  clients  of  any  other  rating  agency  on  assurance  of  higher 

rating. 

8.   A credit rating agency shall keep track of all important changes relating to the 

client  companies and  shall  develop  efficient and  responsive  systems to yield 

timely  and  accurate ratings.  Further  a  credit rating  agency  shall  also  monitor 

closely  all  relevant  factors  that  might  affect  the  creditworthiness  of  the 

issuers. 

9.    A  credit  rating  agency  shall  disclose  its  rating  methodology  to  clients,  users 

and the public. 

10. A  credit  rating  agency  shall,  wherever  necessary,  disclose  to  the  clients, 

possible  sources  of  conflict  of  duties  and  interests,  which  could  impair  its 

ability to make fair, objective and unbiased ratings. Further it shall ensure that 

no  conflict  of  interest  exists  between  any  member  of  its  rating  committee 

participating in the rating analysis, and that of its client. 

11. A  credit  rating  agency  shall  not  make  any  exaggerated  statement,  whether 

oral  or  written,  to  the  client  either  about  its  qualification  or  its  capability  to 

render  certain  services  or  its  achievements  with  regard  to  the  services 

rendered to other clients. 

12. A  credit  rating  agency  shall  not  make  any  untrue  statement,  suppress  any 

material  fact  or  make  any  misrepresentation  in  any  documents,  reports, 

papers  or  information  furnished  to  the  board,  stock  exchange  or  public  at 

large. 

13. A credit rating agency shall ensure that the Board is promptly informed about 

any  action,  legal  proceedings  etc.,  initiated  against  it  alleging  any  material 

breach  or  non-compliance  by  it,  of  any  law,  rules,  regulations  and  directions 

of the Board or of any other regulatory body. 

14. A  credit  rating  agency  shall  maintain  an  appropriate  level  of  knowledge  and 

competence and abide by the provisions of the Act, regulations and circulars, 

which may be applicable and relevant to the activities carried on by the credit 

rating  agency.  The  credit  rating  agency  shall  also  comply  with  award  of  the 

Ombudsman  passed  under  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Board  of  India 

Page 38 of 36 

 

 

(Ombudsman) Regulations, 2003. 

15. A  credit  rating  agency  shall  ensure  that  there  is  no  misuse  of  any  privileged 

information including prior knowledge of rating decisions or changes. 

16. (a) A credit rating agency or any of his employees shall not render, directly or 

indirectly  any  investment advice  about any  security  in  the publicly  accessible 

media. 

(b)  A  credit  rating  agency  shall  not  offer  fee-based  services  to  the  rated 

entities, beyond credit ratings and research. 

17. A credit rating agency shall ensure that any change in registration status/any 

penal  action  taken  by  board  or  any  material  change  in  financials  which  may 

adversely  affect  the  interests  of  clients/investors  is  promptly  informed  to  the 

clients  and  any  business  remaining  outstanding  is  transferred  to  another 

registered  person  in  accordance  with  any  instructions  of  the  affected 

clients/investors. 

18. A credit rating agency shall maintain an arm’s length relationship between its 

credit rating activity and any other activity. 

19. A  credit  rating  agency  shall  develop  its  own  internal  code  of  conduct  for 

governing its internal operations and laying down its standards of appropriate 

conduct for its employees and officers in the carrying out of their duties within 

the  credit  rating  agency  and  as  a  part  of  the  industry.  Such  a  code  may 

extend to   the   maintenance   of   professional   excellence   and   standards, 

integrity,   confidentiality,   objectivity,   avoidance   of   conflict   of   interests, 

disclosure of shareholdings and interests, etc. Such a code shall also provide 

for procedures and  guidelines in  relation  to the establishment  and  conduct  of 

rating  committees  and  duties  of  the  officers  and  employees  serving  on  such 

committees. 

20. A  credit  rating  agency  shall  provide  adequate  freedom  and  powers  to  its 

compliance officer for the effective discharge of his duties. 

21. A  credit  rating  agency  shall  ensure  that  the  senior  management,  particularly 

decision  makers  have  access  to  all  relevant  information  about  the  business 

on a timely basis. 

22. A credit rating agency shall ensure that good corporate policies and corporate 

Page 39 of 36 

 

 

 

 

governance are in place. 

23. A credit rating agency  shall not, generally and particularly in respect of issue 

of securities rated by it, be party to or instrumental for— 

(a) creation of false market; 

(b) price rigging or manipulation; or 

(c) dissemination of any unpublished price sensitive information in respect of 

securities  which  are  listed  and  proposed  to  be  listed  in  any  stock 

exchange, unless required, as part of rationale for the rating accorded. 

Page 40 of 36 

